Admission Date:  [**2151-1-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2151-2-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2096-2-11**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54 year old man
admitted to Intensive Care Unit on [**2151-1-31**], from [**Hospital3 6265**] for evaluation of hematemesis, melena and abdominal
mass.  The patient had been doing well until the Tuesday
prior to admission when he developed a headache at which
point he took Vicodin and developed nausea and vomiting and
abdominal pain.  On the Thursday evening prior to admission,
he states he passed out on the floor of the bathroom and had
a fall secondary to severe pain.  He states that he had loss
of consciousness for about fifteen minutes.  He denies head
trauma.

On the Saturday prior to admission, the patient states that
he had some retching with blood.  He presented to the
Emergency Department at [**Hospital3 3583**] where he was admitted
and found to have a hematocrit of 26.3, potassium 6.2, and he
was also in acute renal failure.  Abdominal CT indicated a
large peripancreatic mass.  The patient was transferred to
[**Hospital1 69**] for further evaluation.

On transfer, his white blood cell count was 28, and his
creatinine was 3.4.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  History of spontaneous pneumothorax.
2.  History of immune complex mediated glomerulonephritis.
3.  History of peptic ulcer disease, status post surgery.
4.  Acute renal failure.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Vicodin p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  The patient states he is allergic to Sulfa,
Aspirin and Naprosyn.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient works in sales.  He has a twenty
pack year history of smoking.  He denies alcohol or street
drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, the patient's
temperature was 97.0, heart rate 107, respiratory rate 15,
blood pressure 135/42, oxygen saturation 98% on two liters.
In general, the patient was alert, in no acute distress.  The
neck was supple.  Pulmonary examination indicated scant
crackles bilaterally.  Cardiovascular examination indicated
regular rhythm, normal S1 and S2, and a II/VI systolic
murmur.  The abdomen was distended with decreased bowel
sounds and mild diffuse tenderness to percussion.  On
extremity examination, the patient had 2+ peripheral pulses
with no edema.  His stool was guaiac negative.

LABORATORY DATA:  Initial laboratory studies indicated a
white count 28.6, hematocrit 25.6, platelet count 404,000.
Chem7 indicated a blood urea nitrogen 43 and a creatinine of
3.4.  INR was elevated at 1.9.  Liver function tests were
within normal limits.

Electrocardiogram indicated normal sinus rhythm, rate 99
beats per minute, normal axis, normal intervals and no
ischemic changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit.  Nasogastric lavage was performed which indicated
the presence of coffee ground emesis.  He was evaluated by
the gastroenterology service and emergent endoscopy was
performed which indicated the presence of a hiatal hernia as
well as compression of the second and third part of the
duodenum. A biopsy was taken at the compression site which
indicated chronic inactive duodenitis and focal Brunner gland
hyperplasia.  There was also gastric mucocele metaplasia.

CT of the abdomen indicated a 10 by 6.0 centimeter soft
tissue mass within the mesentery just below the pelvic rim as
well as a 10 by 16 centimeter mesenteric and retroperitoneal
hematoma displaying the duodenum anteriorly and compressing
the inferior vena cava.  Significant mesenteric
lymphadenopathy was also noted.

Renal and surgery services were consulted.  On the
recommendation of the surgery service, a follow-up abdominal
CT with p.o. contrast was completed which indicated
persistent intra-abdominal hematoma but no intra-abdominal
mass.  The patient was also now noted to have increased liver
function tests with an ALT of 622, AST of 649, and normal
total bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase.

As the patient's hematocrit continued to drop, a bleeding
scan was conducted which indicated active bleeding into the
abdomen with no clear source.  The patient therefore received
an angiogram which indicated the presence of a superior
mesenteric artery aneurysm as well as active bleeding from
the gastroduodenal artery which was embolized.

The patient also developed shortness of breath following the
administration of a total of fourteen units of packed red
blood cells in the Intensive Care Unit.  Chest x-ray
indicated the presence of congestive heart failure and a
possible left sided infiltrate.  The patient was started on
Lasix as well as Levaquin and Flagyl.  A hepatitis panel was
sent which was negative.  ANCA was sent out of concern over
possible polyarteritis nodosa, however, this study was
negative.  The patient was also started on total parenteral
nutrition secondary to an expected ileus following
embolization.

While in the Intensive Care Unit following embolization, his
transaminases trended downward, and his creatinine improved,
and his hematocrit remained stable.  The patient did develop
transient episodic hypertension to a systolic pressure of 200
requiring Labetalol drip, however, this was successfully
weaned and the patient was transitioned to Labetalol tablets.
While in the unit, he also developed bipedal and scrotal
edema, which again was thought secondary to volume overload
in the setting of multiple transfusions.

Echocardiogram conducted on hospital day number four
indicated ejection fraction of greater than 55% with 1+
tricuspid regurgitation.

On hospital day number six, the patient was transferred to
the floor for additional workup of questionable abdominal
mass.  On repeat [**Location (un) 1131**] of the patient's existing CAT scans,
it was determined that what was initially read as a mass on
the first CT was likely to be extension of the hematoma.
Follow-up imaging in four weeks was recommended.

On his first day on the floor, the patient spiked a
temperature to 101.3 degrees Fahrenheit.  Repeat chest x-ray
indicated worsening pulmonary infiltrates bilaterally. At
this point, the patient was switched to Ceftazidime and
Clindamycin to treat possible nosocomial pneumonia.  Sputum
and blood cultures were sent which were negative.

The patient's pulmonary status improved significantly on
intravenous antibiotics.  As the patient was able to tolerate
p.o. intake, his total parenteral nutrition was discontinued.
However, the patient noted some pain with eating and was
found to have a small lesion at the site of his denture
insertion site.  The patient was able to tolerate food after
pretreatment with Viscous Lidocaine solution.

Although the patient's initial abdominal pain subsided, he
was maintained on Oxycontin for control of residual abdominal
pain while on the floor.  The patient's lower extremity edema
decreased with the administration of intravenous and then
subsequently p.o. Lasix.

On hospital day number ten, the patient was noted to have
increasing jaundice and altered mental status.  Liver
function tests at that time indicated an alkaline phosphatase
of 1091 and total bilirubin of 11.4.  His transaminases were
only slightly elevated.  A right upper quadrant ultrasound
was performed which indicated a dilatation of the common bile
duct as well as the presence of biliary sludge.  There was no
intrahepatic biliary duct dilatation and no gallstones.

Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was performed
after consultation with the gastroenterology service.  This
study indicated a fifteen millimeter common bile duct which
was stented as well as stenosis of the distal bulb.  The
patient's liver function tests, jaundice and mental status
improved following endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography.  The patient was to have a
follow-up endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography in
three months for stent removal.

Although the patient's mental status did improve following
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, some residual
symptoms of agitation and paranoia prompted a psychiatry
consultation who recommended low dose of Haldol p.r.n. for
worsening of these symptoms.  However, the patient'