Admission Date:  [**2155-7-22**]       Discharge Date:  [**2155-7-26**]


Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain and shortness of breath
requiring BiPAP.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 82-year-old
gentleman with a past medical history significant for
coronary artery disease with unrevascularized three-vessel
disease and ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction
of 20% with also a history of VTs and sinus node dysfunction
and status post VT ablation and pacer ICD placement,
peripheral vascular disease, hypertension, and
hypercholesterolemia, who was admitted with acute onset of
substernal chest pain for one hour while at rest.  The
patient reported associated symptoms of diaphoresis and
shortness of breath.  The patient took six sublingual
nitroglycerins without relief and he was given Lasix 80 mg IV
en route to the Emergency Department.  The patient refused
aspirin.

In the emergency room his heart rate was 96, blood pressure
194/88 and his oxygen saturation was 86% on a face mask,
which improved to 95% on BiPAP.  Chest x-ray was consistent
with congestive heart failure and the EKG was uninterpretable
due to pacer.  He was given aspirin, nitroglycerin and was
transferred to the coronary care unit where aggressive
diuresis was initiated for his congestive heart failure.
During his diuresis, he developed some abdominal pains and
laboratory studies showed an elevated amylase and lipase.
The patient is a poor historian, but reported vague abdominal
pain approximately two weeks ago when he went for a pacer
check with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].  The patient in the coronary care
unit was given some gentle hydration in response to his acute
pancreatitis, and the patient was transferred to the floor
where his pancreatic enzymes were trending down, however he
developed a leukocytosis and a temperature to 101.1.  On the
floor he was taking clear liquids without abdominal pain.  He
denied any back or epigastric pain, but again the patient is
a very poor historian.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Coronary artery disease,
three-vessel disease in [**2150-3-8**].  He had a catheterization
that showed 30% stenosis of his LM and 30% of his PLAD and
30% of his D1.  2. Peripheral vascular disease, status post a
right iliofemoral bypass in [**10-9**] and status post
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of his left
iliac in [**7-9**].  3. Ischemic congestive heart failure with an
ejection fraction of 20%.  4. History of VT sinus node
dysfunction, status post ablation and pacer placement in
[**2149**].  5. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  6. Chronic
renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 2.1 to 3.6.
7. Hypertension.  8. Hypercholesterolemia.  9. History of
penile implant.

ALLERGIES:  The patient states by report that he has no known
drug allergies, however review of computerized medical
records reports that he has an allergy to ACE inhibitors.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is a previous smoker, 120-pack-year
history, quit 10 years ago, denies alcohol use, lives in [**Location 11206**], MA with his wife.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His father died secondary to leukemia and
his mother died of liver disease; no further information was
provided.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.  2.
Lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d.  3. Isordil 30 mg p.o. q. day.  4.
Plavix 75 mg p.o. q. day.  5. Hydralazine 25 mg p.o. q. day.
6. Aspirin once a day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs on transfer to the floor
from the coronary care unit were temperature 101.2, blood
pressure 103/58, pulse 61, respiratory rate 28, and he was
saturating 95% on two liters.  In general he was a confused
gentleman sitting in his chair in no apparent distress.
HEENT examination showed left pterygium, pupils minimally
reactive bilaterally.  His oropharynx was clear.  His mucous
membranes were dry.  His neck was supple without jugular
venous distension.  His chest had bilateral crackles one-half
way up the lung fields.  His cardiac examination revealed a
2/6 systolic murmur best heard at the right upper sternal
border greater than the left upper sternal border.  Abdominal
examination revealed positive bowel sounds, nontender with
palpation, and no tenderness in the epigastrium and right
upper quadrant with palpation.  Extremities revealed no
edema.  Neurologically, cranial nerves II-XII were grossly
intact.  He had [**4-12**] right lower extremity strength, otherwise
5/5 strength in all extremities and his right lower extremity
was cooler than his left lower extremity.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission his white count was 17,
hematocrit 41, platelet count 781.  Differential showed a
white blood cell count with 63.5 neutrophils, 26 lymphocytes,
7 monocytes, 3 eosinophils, 1 basophil.  Sodium 139,
potassium 4.5, chloride 103, bicarbonate 24, BUN 38,
creatinine 3.0, glucose 155.  He had a calcium of 9.1, a
magnesium of 2.2 and a phosphorous of 4.5.  He had an INR of
1.1, a PTT of 24.0.

Laboratory studies on admission to the floor showed a white
count elevated to 21.3, hematocrit 36.6, sodium 139,
potassium 4.2, chloride 100, bicarbonate 26, BUN 48,
creatinine 3.2 and a glucose of 123.  He had a phosphorous of
4.0 and a magnesium of 2.1.  He had an ALT of 18, an AST of
24 and alkaline phosphatase of 84.  His amylase, three
values, from 442 to 911 to 424; lipase 882 to 946 to 166.
His total bilirubin was 1.0.  He had cardiac enzymes drawn, a
set of three, showing troponins 0.01, 0.04 and 0.03.  The
patient also had an MCV of 63, a TIBC of 442, which was
elevated, and a ferritin of 11, which is increased.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1. Pancreatitis:  The patient had
experienced initial symptoms of abdominal pain while in the
coronary care unit during aggressive diuresis.  An ultrasound
of the liver and gallbladder showed a gallbladder with stones
and sludge.  There was no acute cholecystitis.  There was a
nondilated biliary tree.  He had an atrophic left kidney and
there was a limited view of the pancreas.  To obtain better
imaging, we obtained an abdominal and pelvis CT without
contrast concerning his chronic renal insufficiency that
showed inflammation of his pancreas.  The patient was
tolerating clears and then a full diet while on the floor
without abdominal pain.  The patient's pain control was
purely on a p.r.n. basis.  There were no standing medications
provided.  We believe that his pancreatitis was secondary to
transient passage of gallstones.  GI consult was not
appropriate at this time because the onset of his pain had
been for more than 24 hours, thus sphincterotomy was not
indicated.

2. Congestive heart failure:  The patient was weaned off
oxygen and on the day before discharge he had an O2
saturation of 93% on room air.  The patient's lung
examination improved with diminished crackles in both lungs.
The patient was kept off his diuretics while in the hospital
secondary to his chronic renal insufficiency, but more
importantly, secondary to his acute pancreatitis and his
fluid balance.  The patient will be discharged on a smaller
dose of Lasix.  He originally came in on 80 p.o. q. day and
will be discharged on 40 p.o. q. day with follow up with his
primary care physician in regards to adjustment of his Lasix
dosage.

3. Leukocytosis:  The patient experienced an increase in his
white count from 17.0 to 21.3 with a bandemia once he was
transferred to the floor with neutrophils to 88.  The patient
did have a left shift in a differential blood count that was
received while the patient was on the floor, with 88
neutrophils.  We believe his leukocytosis is related to a
urinary tract infection.  Urine cultures are pending, however
two urinalyses were consistent with a urinary tract infection
with elevated white blood cells and bacteria.  The patient in
response to this was treated with levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.
48 hours for a total of seven days.  This is the renal dosing
for levofloxacin.  He will be discharged on this medication
to complete his course of therapy.

4. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease:  The patient was
given metered dose inhalers p.r.n. for his chronic renal
insufficiency.  His creatinine was at the higher end of his
baseline and for his coro