Admission Date:  [**2103-5-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2103-5-24**]


Service:

ADDENDUM TO PREVIOUS DISCHARGE SUMMARY

Add to medication list:  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.

In regard to patient's congestive heart failure management,
patient apparently was on isosorbide dinitrate 10 mg p.o.
t.i.d. as an outpatient.  This medication was tried prior to
discharge and patient experienced hypotension with a low dose
of this medication.  Subsequently this medication was
discontinued.  Patient did quite well with diuresis with 20
mg of intravenous Lasix and thus the patient was discharged
on a dosage of 40 mg daily p.o. q day.

Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction:  The patient
frequently had rapid rate in the 110 range but her blood
pressure would not tolerate further increase in metoprolol as
she was already on a large dose of 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. which
should be continued as an outpatient and on further follow up
with her primary care physician this metoprolol dosage could
likely be changed to a q.d. dosing.  This was not done
further prior to discharge since further titration of her
medications may be needed.

Eye issues:  The patient has right conjunctival erythema most
likely secondary to Bell's palsy causing a droopy lower lid.
Patient apparently was on gatifloxacin eye drops for an
unknown reason and unknown duration of time per her
ophthalmologist, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 106470**].  Since Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 106470**] could not be
reached, I suggested that patient's daughters follow up with
her outpatient ophthalmologist to make a follow up
appointment regarding further use of these eye drops, their
indication for use and any further follow up appointments
that area needed.  Patient had no signs or symptoms of
infection, conjunctivitis and her eye apparently appeared
improved than one month ago per the patient and her family.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Addended should read aspirin 325 mg
p.o. q.d., atorvastatin 10 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix 40 mg p.o.
q.d., Atrovent inhaler q 6 hours p.r.n., nitroglycerine
sublingual 0.3 mg sublingual p.r.n., Protonix 40 mg p.o.
q.d., metoprolol 50 mg p.o. t.i.d., levofloxacin 250 mg p.o.
q.d. times six more days to complete a ten day course for
community acquired pneumonia, and last warfarin 3 mg p.o.
q.h.s.

Patient should follow up with her primary care doctor
regarding her Coumadin and INR levels.  I also advised at the
rehabilitation facility that patient should have her
potassium checked as well as her INR checked at least every
other day to ensure therapeutic level of her Coumadin dosing
as well as electrolyte repletion for diuresis.





                            [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3795**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 10397**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2103-5-24**]  12:23
T:  [**2103-5-24**]  12:11
JOB#:  [**Job Number 106471**]
