Admission Date:  [**2199-11-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2199-11-28**]


Service:  Cardiology

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 86 year old male with
a past medical history of lung cancer, status post
pneumonectomy, abdominal aortic aneurysm, aortic valve
disease, history of peptic ulcer disease who presents with
shortness of breath and chest pain two days prior to
admission.  The patient states that three days prior to
admission he had difficulty sleeping secondary to general
discomfort, difficulty lying flat, secondary to shortness of
breath, and some stuttering right-sided chest pain.  However,
the patient was unable to sleep through the night.  One day
prior to admission, during the night again, the patient had
more difficulty sleeping secondary to worsening shortness of
breath when lying flat and more frequent episodes of
right-sided chest pain.  He states that he sat up in bed for
most of the night and could not sleep at all the night prior
to admission.  He denies any nausea or vomiting, no
diaphoresis, no palpitations.  The day of admission, the
patient states that after returning from the grocery store
the patient thought he was going to collapse.  He states his
whole body felt weak, extremely short of breath and he noted
a small amount of hemoptysis.  The patient presented to the
Emergency Room in a taxi cab.  In the Emergency Room, the
patient was noted to be short of breath, he was speaking in
short sentences.  His respiratory rate was 36 and oxygen
saturation was 71% on room air.  His blood pressure at that
time was 164/103.  His heartrate was 126.  He was noted to
have coarse breathsounds throughout.  The patient was placed
on 100% nonrebreather face mask.  Electrocardiogram showed a
sinus tachycardia to 115 with some J point elevations in
leads V2 through V3 as well as incomplete left bundle branch
block.  He was given Lasix 80 mg intravenously times two,
nitroglycerin drip was started and he was also given some
Morphine 2 mg intravenously and Lopressor 2.5 mg
intravenously times two.  In the Emergency Room his
creatinine kinase was 1209 with an MBI of 19, troponin was
2.7.  The patient was started on heparin.  His blood pressure
decreased to 115/70.  The patient was unable to wean off of
100% nonrebreather mask.  The chest x-ray was consistent with
pulmonary edema.  After receiving the Lasix in the Emergency
Room, the patient was feeling much better.  The patient has
denied shortness of breath and denies chest pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Lung cancer, status post partial
pneumonectomy.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.  History of peptic
ulcer disease.  Aortic valve disease.  Gout.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Aspirin
2.  Lipitor
3.  Allopurinol

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco use, no alcohol use.  The patient
lives with his daughter in the [**Name (NI) 1426**] [**Name (NI) 26498**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission
revealed temperature 98.2, heartrate 81, blood pressure
110/71, respiratory rate 32, oxygen saturation was 95% on
100% nonrebreather facemask.  In general the patient appeared
comfortable, lying in bed at an angle of 30 degrees on a
nonrebreather mask.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  His
right pupil was cloudy.  His left pupil reactive to light.
Sclerae anicteric.  Oropharynx clear.  Moist mucous membranes.
Cardiovascular examination:  Regular rate and rhythm, he has
a normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops audible.
His abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended with active
bowel sounds.  His lungs, coarse breathsounds throughout.
Extremities, no edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission his white blood cell count was
13.1, hematocrit 35.9, platelets 153.  His MCV was 110,
sodium 141, potassium 4.8, chloride 107, bicarbonate 20, BUN
54, creatinine 3.8, and glucose 257.  His creatinine kinase
on admission was 1209 with an MB of 328, MB index of 19 and
troponin of 2.71.  Urinalysis on admission:  Yellow, clear,
1.025, 100 protein, 0-2 red blood cells, 3 white blood cells,
rare bacteria, [**3-27**] epithelial cells.  Chest x-ray showed a
pulmonary edema with a left pleural effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Floor after his respiratory status improved after receiving
Lasix in the Emergency Department.  Over night the patient
remained stable, however, the next morning the patient was
noted to be more hypotensive and to be in increasing
respiratory distress.  In addition, the patient had a
traumatic Foley catheter insertion and developed some
significant hematuria.  The Urology Service was consulted and
the patient was started on continuous bladder irrigation with
resolution of the hematuria.  Due to his worsening
respiratory status, the patient was taken immediately to
catheterization for evaluation of possible blockage, given
that the patient ruled in for myocardial infarction.  The
patient was then transferred to the Intensive Care Unit post
catheterization.  Catheterization showed left main coronary
artery disease with a 20% ostial stenosis.  Left anterior
descending artery has a 90% mid stenosis involving D2, as
well as 60% ostial/proximal stenosis.  There was also 80%
left circumflex stenosis and 80% proximal right coronary
artery stenosis.  PTCA and stenting was performed during
catheterization, on the left circumflex and on the mid left
anterior descending.  During the catheterization,
the patient was emergently intubated for worsening
respiratory status.  It was thought the patient was in
cardiogenic shock secondary to an anterolateral myocardial
infarction.  The patient was started on Dopamine drip. He
was also started on Natrecor drip to diurese.

In the Intensive Care Unit the patient was noted to have
acute renal failure with creatinine increasing to 5.1.  It
was thought this likely secondary to the dye load from the
catheterization in the setting of chronic renal
insufficiency.  The patient was also noted to have a
temperature spike to 101 degrees F.  The patient received
Vancomycin times one and was started on Levofloxacin and
Flagyl.  The patient was slowly weaned off of Dopamine and
extubated on [**2199-11-22**].  The patient was continued on
a heparin drip on transfer to CCU.  The patient developed a
hematocrit drop from 35.9 to 27 to 23.  The heparin was
discontinued and the patient was transfused 2 units of red
blood cells with improvement of his hematocrit to 30.8 prior
to transfer out of the Intensive Care Unit.  While in the
unit the patient continued to demonstrate congestive heart
failure.  The patient was treated with Hydralazine and
Isordil as well as Lasix intravenously prn urine output.  The
patient had a renal ultrasound which documented no
hydronephrosis bilaterally.  The ultrasound did show that the
renal cortices were thin and that the kidneys were overall
small in size suggestive of some element of chronic renal
disease.  The patient was transferred out of the Intensive
Care Unit on [**2199-11-25**].  At the time of transfer, the
patient was afebrile, his heart rate was 93, his blood
pressure was 124/55.  Respiratory rate was 18 and he was
sating 95% on 4 liters nasal cannula oxygen.  In terms of his
cardiovascular disease, the patient was continued on his
Aspirin, Plavix, statin as well as Carvedilol on transfer to
the Medicine Floor.  The patient remained chest pain free
throughout the remainder of the hospital stay.  In terms of his
congestive heart failure, the patient was noted to have an
ejection fraction of less than 15% with global severe
hypokinesis to akinesis. He appeared euvolemic on transfer to the
Medical Floor, however, he was noted to have some coarse crackles
at the base bilaterally.  The patient was diuresed with Lasix
intravenously.  In addition, the patient's Hydralazine was
increased to 25 t.i.d. with a goal dose being 75 mg p.o.
t.i.d.  He was also continued on his Isosorbide which was
increased to 20 mg t.i.d. with a goal dose being 40 t.i.d.
The medications were increased as blood pressure permitted
with a goal systolic blood pressure of greater than 90.
Given the patient's decreased ejection fraction, the patient
should have an electrophysiology c