Admission Date:  [**2144-12-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2145-1-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2086-10-17**]       Sex:  F

Service:

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Cardiogenic shock
2.  Upper gastrointestinal bleed

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Coronary artery disease
2.  Mitral regurgitation
3.  Upper gastrointestinal bleed
4.  Mitral valve prolapse
5.  Status post coronary artery bypass graft times two and
mitral valve repair
6.  Episodic atrial fibrillation
7.  Left ventricular outflow obstruction

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58 year old
woman who was admitted to the [**Hospital3 3834**] on [**2144-12-26**] with complaints of shortness of breath.  She denied
chest pains or palpitations at that time.  She was
hypotensive and a chest x-ray was consistent with congestive
heart failure.  Computerized tomography scan was obtained to
rule out pulmonary embolism given the history of breast
cancer.  The patient had a history of allergy to Shellfish
and computerized tomography scan was ultimately negative for
pulmonary thrombosis, but the patient became acutely more
short of breath and bronchospastic.  She was presumed to have
an allergic reaction to the intravenous contrast dye and was
treated with epinephrine, Solu-Medrol as well as Benadryl.
Despite this the patient became hypoxic and was intubated and
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit.  Dopamine drip was
started and Swan-Ganz monitoring was used.  Dobutamine was
started for presumed cardiogenic shock although there was no
specific etiology.  Heparin drip was also begun and the
patient's PTT went to 170.  The patient subsequently
developed a 300 cc bloody emesis via nasogastric tube.
Hematocrit dropped from 41.6 to 34.4.  She was transfused 2
units of packed red blood cells and a repeat hematocrit was
38.3.  Heparin was discontinued.  The patient was also
started on broad-spectrum antibiotics, Levaquin, Vancomycin
and Flagyl.  The patient was then transferred to the [**Hospital6 1760**] for catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Bronchitis; 2.  Asthma; 3.  Status
post right lumpectomy for breast cancer; 4.  Fibromyalgia; 5.
Hypertension; 6.  Increased cholesterol; 7.  Mitral valve
prolapse; 8.  Palpitations.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin, shellfish, Demerol, Percocet.

MEDICATIONS:  Medications at home were Atenolol 25 mg q.d.,
Lipitor, Amitriptyline.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Intubated, alert, moves all
extremities and follows commands.  Vital signs, temperature
100.0, heartrate 100, blood pressure 102/66, respirations 12,
100% oxygenation.  Cardiovascular, tachycardiac, S1 and S2,
II/VI systolic ejection murmur at the apex.  Chest is
significant for rales in the right mid lung field.  Abdomen
is soft, nontender, nondistended and obese.  Extremities are
warm, noncyanotic, nonedematous times four.  Neurological was
grossly intact.

The patient has a right internal jugular Swan-Ganz catheter,
left radial arterial line, intubated with nasogastric tube,
Foley catheter and two peripheral intravenous lines.

LABORATORY DATA:  Complete blood count 22.9/31.9/217 with
neutrophils 88%.  Chemistry 137/4.2/103/22/25/0.9/147/
8.2/4.9/3.2.  Arterial blood gases 7.42/35/115 on 40% fIO2.
Creatinine kinase 108, MB 4 and troponin 2.0.  Chest x-ray
reveals mild congestive heart failure with question of a
right middle lobe infiltrate.  There was some small left
pleural effusion.  Electrocardiogram is sinus rhythm, ST
depression in V3 and 4 with T wave flattening in the lateral
leads.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted with the
presumptive diagnosis of cardiogenic shock, possibly from
transient ischemia.  She has also had upper gastrointestinal
bleed.  Leukocytosis with lowgrade temperatures, also
indicated the possibility of a lung infection.

From a gastrointestinal standpoint, the patient had an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy performed on [**2144-12-28**]
which revealed blood in the fundus and multiple small lesions
are actively bleeding.  It was felt that those lesions
probably represented arteriovenous malformations.
Gastroenterology recommendations were to avoid non-steroidal
anti-inflammatory drugs, transfuse prn and avoid nasogastric
tube suction.  The patient is also to begin proton pump
inhibitors, Protonix 40 mg b.i.d.

The patient was extubated on hospital day #2 without
difficulty.  Her saturations remained above 95% on face mask.
The patient was premedicated for cardiac catheterization
given her possible allergic reaction to intravenous dye.
Cardiac catheterization revealed 3 to 4+ mitral regurgitation
with an ejection fraction of 65%.  There was some anterior
hypokinesis.  The coronary system was right dominant and
there was noted to be 70% occlusion of obtuse marginal 1 and
60% of the mid right coronary artery.  Intra-aortic balloon
pump was placed at that time.  Cardiology also recommended
coronary artery bypass graft and mitral valve repair.  The
patient also had an episode of supraventricular tachycardia
with a rate of 200 and then converted back to sinus rhythm
with a total of 10 mg of intravenous Lopressor.  Cardiac
surgery consultation was obtained on hospital day #3 which
agreed with operative repair.  On [**2144-12-30**], the
patient then underwent coronary artery bypass graft times two
with saphenous vein graft to the descending right coronary
artery and saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal as
well as mitral valve repair with a 26 mm [**Doctor Last Name 405**] [**Doctor Last Name **]
annuloplasty band.  Postoperatively, the patient was taken to
the Intensive Care Unit for closer monitoring.  The patient
was subsequently extubated that evening.  Postoperatively,
the patient did well in the Intensive Care Unit.
Intra-aortic balloon pump was discontinued on postoperative
day #2.  She was also transfused 1 unit of packed red blood
cells.  The patient was transferred to the floor on
postoperative day #3 and seemed to be doing well.  Her chest
tubes and wires were discontinued.  On the evening of
postoperative day #3, the patient went into rapid atrial
fibrillation and was given 20 mg of intravenous Lopressor as
well as 150 mg of Amiodarone.  The patient's rate remained
uncontrolled and blood pressure began to drop.  The patient
was transferred back to the Intensive Care Unit for closer
monitoring.  The patient received an additional Amiodarone
150 mg intravenous bolus as well as Amiodarone drip.  The
patient subsequently converted back into normal sinus rhythm.
On postoperative day #5 the patient was transferred back to
the floor.  She continued to work with physical therapy and
did well with this.  On postoperative day #6, the patient
went into a second episode of rapid atrial fibrillation at
approximately 1:30 AM.  The patient remained asymptomatic
throughout without chest pain or shortness of breath.  She
did complain of subjective palpitations.  Heartrate was
between 120 and 150 with a blood pressure maintained in the
100s/60s.  Saturations were 97% on room air.  The patient
converted back to normal sinus rhythm with 15 mg of
intravenous Lopressor and 2 gm of Magnesium Sulfate given.
Lowest blood pressure drop was 80/60.  Subsequent to this,
Electrophysiology was consulted.  They recommended outpatient
[**Doctor Last Name **] of Hearts monitoring as well as Amiodarone taper
regimen.  They also recommended obtaining echocardiogram
prior to discharge to assess the left ventricular function as
well as mitral valve function.  Echocardiogram was obtained
on [**2145-1-6**] which revealed still some mild to
moderate mitral regurgitation as well as significant left
ventricular outflow obstruction due to the mitral leaflets.
Left ventricular function remained greater than 60%, the
effect was hyperdynamic.  The patient was kept in house for
closer monitoring as well as increasing of beta blockade.
The goal was to decrease the patient's heartrate down below
the 70s and hopefully into the 50s.  The patient tolerated
this and had no further disease.  The patient was discharged
to home on postoperative day #9 tolerating a regular diet and
given adequate pain control and p.o. pain medications.
Anticoagulation was not begun due to her history of
gastrointestinal bleeds and prob