Admission Date:  [**2139-1-14**]       Discharge Date:  [**2139-1-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2083-2-26**]       Sex:  M


CHIEF COMPLAINT:   Ascites, scrotal swelling, shortness of
breath and lower extremity edema.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 55 year old male with
infarction times two, status post four vessel coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2135-3-6**], hypercholesterolemia,
hypertension, and congestive heart failure, who reports he
has had increased swelling of his abdomen and legs with
swelling of the scrotum which has progressed over two to
three weeks' time.  He also has had associated and frequent
shortness of breath and inability to move.
He was transferred from [**Hospital1 **] [**Hospital1 **] where he was
admitted on the [**3-9**].  There, he was
assumed to have biventricular failure as the cause of his
edema.  He received Zaroxolyn and Bumex, but his BUN and
creatinine elevated.  An abdominal ultrasound showed
splenomegaly and a renal consult thought patient was
pre-renal and therefore, the patient's diuresis was withheld
except for Spironolactone.  ACE inhibitor was held as well.

A cardiac ultrasound was attempted but the study was limited
by obesity and Cardiology there recommended a MUGA Scan which
showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 60%, good
biventricular function.

A paracentesis was done on [**1-11**], of two liters.  The
studies showed 400 white blood cells, 520 red blood cells, no
polys, 41 lymphocytes, 59 monocytes, glucose 126, total
protein 3.9, LDH 110 and Enterococci grew out which was
treated with Ampicillin one gram q. eight hours.  For a
hematocrit of 25 he was transfused two units of packed red
blood cells.  Repeat paracentesis on [**1-13**] drew off
five liters; this was done only for the patient's comfort and
no studies were sent.

A BUN and creatinine on discharge were 127 and 3.8.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were 97.9 F.; 140/72; 56;
20; 97 on room air; 170 kilograms.  On examination, the
patient was in no apparent distress.  Oropharynx clear.
Mucous membranes were moist.  Heart showed regular rate and
rhythm.  Normal S1, S2.  Lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, distended with
splenomegaly.  Extremities with two plus edema bilaterally.

LABORATORY:  Chem 7 as follows:  137, 5.7, 102, 27, 127, 3.8,
153 glucose.  Calcium 8.9, iron 53, TIBC 298, hemoglobin A1C
7.3, TSH 17.

Ascites with Enterococci sensitive to Ampicillin and
sensitive to Vancomycin.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 55 year old male with a history
of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, significant coronary
artery disease, but good ejection fraction on a recent MUGA
scan, obesity, hypertension, and lower extremity edema with
shortness of breath times two to three weeks.  He had his
first paracentesis in an outside hospital recently with
unclear etiology of his edema.

A Cardiology consultation was obtained and a repeat
echocardiogram was done to work-up the cause of his edema.
This study was extremely limited and the left ventricular
ejection fraction could not be estimated, but the systolic
function  of  the left ventricle did not seem to be severely
depressed. The right ventricle was not well seen.  Thickened
aortic and mitral leaflets, and a right ventriculogram could be
done if further quantification was to be done.

In addition, the patient had an ultrasound of his right upper
quadrant to determine whether flow was abnormal.  This showed
a diffusely increased echogenicity in the liver consistent
with fatty liver.  Portal venous flow with hepatopetal
direction and a normal hepatic reflow.  The spleen was mildly
enlarged.  There were mild ascites but no other abnormality
on this ultrasound.

The patient had paracentesis of five liters of fluid in-house
which was clear and yellow.  The fluid showed 310 white blood
cells, total protein of 3.2, albumin of 1.7, glucose 162, LDH
100, amylase 26, gram stain negative and a culture was
pending.

Hepatitis serologies were also sent to determine whether
there was some evidence of liver dysfunction accounted by
Hepatitis.  HIV negative, Hepatitis B surface antibody
negative.

The patient was maintained on a cardiac low-salt diet of less
than 2 grams per day and diuretics were initially held
secondary to the question of prerenal azotemia.  The Renal
Service was consulted regarding this patient and acute renal
failure was thought to be secondary to ACE inhibitors plus
diuretics plus/minus infection, with the intention to restart
Bumex 2 twice a day once the patient's creatinine reached its
baseline.

A right heart catheterization was performed while the patient
was in-house to find the etiology of his symptoms as well as
transfer to Liver biopsy.  The catheterization showed
equalization of pressures consistent with a constrictive
physiology.  He was aggressively diuresed with Lasix
overnight while in the Cardiac Care Unit.  The patient had
increased right and left heart pressures as well as
cirrhosis.  He was continued on a regimen of Lasix 40 twice a
day and Aldactone 100 q. day, aiming for minus 1.5 liters off
per day.  It was decided that creatinine could be tolerated
as high as 2.5.  There were no further recommendations from
renal at this time, and the patient was cleared for
discharge.  Ampicillin was also given in-house while the
patient had an Enterococcus in his prior peritoneal fluid.



                        DR [**First Name (STitle) **] [**Name (STitle) **] 12.899

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info **]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2139-5-20**]  15:12
T:  [**2139-5-20**]  16:13
JOB#:  [**Job Number 10472**]
1
1
1
R

