Admission Date:  [**2129-3-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2129-4-13**]


Service:  Medicine

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old man
with a history of fever, chills, shortness of breath x one
week.  The patient reports having shortness of breath for
three to four months.  He has also experienced recent night
sweats and weight loss, approximately 15 pounds, cough and
dyspnea on exertion.  Over the past week the patient has
reported fevers to 102 as well as shaking chills.  In
addition he reports mildly productive cough, yellow sputum,
no blood, and worsening dyspnea on exertion.  The patient has
a history of tuberculosis exposure in his youth, however he
reports being tested during his time in the navy.  The
patient also noted some slight decrease in appetite and
increased obstipation over the past month, which was
evaluated by colonoscopy.

The patient was originally evaluated for shortness of breath
by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 217**] in pulmonary clinic on [**2129-1-26**].  A CT
at that time revealed honeycombing, ground glass
opacification, septal line thickening, traction,
bronchiectasis and bronchiolectasis in predominantly mid
lungs and distribution to a lesser extent in the upper lung
zone and with relative sparing of the lower lung zone.
Pulmonary function tests at the time also represented a
slightly restrictive pattern with an FVC of 83%, an FEV of
105% and a FVC/FEV ratio of 1:27% with a DL/VA of 67%
predicted.  At that time a biopsy to evaluate this
interstitial lung disease was broached and the patient
declined at that time.

The patient notes that this last episode of shortness of
breath was more acute in nature over the last week with
general malaise the day prior to admission and the family
asked him to present for evaluation.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs showed a temperature of
100.6, heart rate 86, blood pressure 146/74, respiratory rate
18, 93% on three liters.  General:  African-American male
lying in bed in no acute distress.  HEENT:  Anicteric
sclerae, pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light,
extraocular movements intact, nasopharynx clear.  Neck:
Soft, supple with no jugular venous distension, no cervical
lymphadenopathy.  Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm, split S2.
Lungs:  Crackles at the bases bilaterally.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended.  Extremities:  No cyanosis or edema.
Neurologic:  Alert and oriented x 3.  Cranial nerves two
through 12 were intact.  Strength was grossly intact.  He had
symmetric reflexes intact and symmetric.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. High cholesterol.  2. Status post
appendectomy.  3. Pulmonary disease under evaluation, room
air saturations resting 95%, on room air 91% with ambulation.
4. History of bifascicular block with occasional ventricular
ectopy.  6. Pulmonary function tests in [**12-31**] showed a
restrictive pattern.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is retired, he worked in the
navy for many years.  He uses social alcohol.  He has a son
in [**Name (NI) 86**].  The patient lives in [**Location 7188**], RI and worked for
21 years as an environmental specialist in the navy in pest
control, wore a mask, no birds at home, smoked two packs per
day x 55 years, he quit four months ago.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His father is deceased of coronary artery
disease.  His mother is deceased of unknown cause, with
diabetes.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 8.4, hematocrit
37.5, platelet count 337, MCV 84, neutrophils 73, lymphocytes
19, monocytes 6. Sodium 137, potassium 4.2, chloride 110, BUN
26, ALT 58, AST 68, alkaline phosphatase 86, LDH 410, total
bilirubin 0.2, albumin 3.3.  Blood cultures were negative.
Urine cultures were negative.

EKG was normal sinus rhythm at 80 beats per minute, normal
axis, normal intervals.  Right bundle branch block with
nonspecific ST changes, no T wave inversions, unchanged from
[**2128-12-3**].  Chest x-ray showed a complex interstitial
opacities bilaterally with worsening in the right upper lobe.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1. Pulmonary:  The patient represents with
acute on chronic shortness of breath.  Previous CT was
notable for interstitial lung pattern.  In house a repeat
chest CT was obtained which showed a segmental pulmonary
embolism to the posterior basal segment of the left lower
lobe, progression of interstitial lung disease particularly
in the right lobe with interval development of numerous
cytologic and large hilar lymph nodes, new adenopathy
nonspecific, and extensive coronary artery calcifications.
Given the patient's evidence of a PE the patient was
initially started on CT.  Pulmonary was consulted and a
biopsy was planned.  However three days into the admission
the patient experienced some additional increasing O2
requirements as well as demonstration of a troponin leak.  On
[**2129-4-4**] a repeat CT was obtained.  The repeat CT on [**4-4**]
showed pulmonary embolism in the left lower lobe had
decreased in size but interval progression of interstitial
lung disease particularly in the upper lobes with hilar
adenopathy.  The patient was placed on levofloxacin,
vancomycin, Bactrim and a BAL was performed.  The cell count
was predominantly polys with a Gram stain negative.  CT
surgery was also consulted and biopsy was not indicated at
this time.  As a result, the patient was empirically placed
on prednisone, Solu-Medrol 30 mg IV q. 8 and prednisone 60 mg
p.o. q.d.  the patient's respiratory status improved with the
Solu-Medrol and the patient was transferred back to the floor
on [**2129-4-7**].  The patient will be discharged on his
prednisone dose.  The patient was placed initially on Bactrim
prophylaxis given prednisone use, however the patient
developed slightly elevated liver function tests and given
this result the Bactrim was discontinued.  The patient was
also provided with supplemental vitamin D and calcium given
prednisone use.  The patient will be monitored as an
outpatient by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 217**], his pulmonologist.

Of note the patient's interstitial lung disease could be due
to a variety of ideologies given its pattern as well as its
both fibrotic and cystic components.  The hilar adenopathy
suggested a possible sarcoidosis picture.  However the dense
interstitial fibrotic as well as the cystic component
suggested chronic interstitial pneumonitis.  The patient has
risk factors for multiple exposures given his previous
occupational history.  Biopsy will be needed to further
evaluate the etiology of his interstitial lung disease.

2. Infectious disease:  The patient came in with a low-grade
temperature with a picture of worsening right upper lobe
interstitial lung disease as well as shaking chills.  The
patient was initially ruled out for tuberculosis with sputum
and a negative PPD was placed.  The patient was started on
levofloxacin for the possibility of pneumonia noted on CT.
Blood cultures were subsequently negative.  BAL was performed
and it was nondiagnostic.  Of note, Legionella was negative.
When the patient was first admitted he did have several
nights of evening fevers.  These fevers resolved with the
initiation of prednisone.  The patient was afebrile prior to
discharge.

3. Cardiac:  The patient had a history of right bundle branch
block, with risk factor of high cholesterol and smoking
history.  On [**4-3**] the patient experienced a troponin leak in
the setting of increased shortness of breath and pleuritic
chest pain.  Cardiology was consulted and they felt that
troponin would likely be a result of strain rather than acute
myocardial infarction.  In addition, the patient was placed
on heparin for PE at that time.  It was suggested that we
follow and the patient's CKs and troponins subsequently
declined.  An echocardiogram obtained at the time showed an
ejection fraction of greater than 60%, TASP of greater than
42 mmHg with a conclusion of overall left ventricular
systolic function normal with a right ventricular cavity
dilated; right ventricular systolic function appeared
depressed with normal septal motion, mild MR [**First Name (Titles) 151**] [*