Admission Date:  [**2173-11-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2173-11-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2103-1-19**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CT [**Doctor First Name 147**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   This is a 70-year-old male with
a past medical history significant for hypertension,
diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, who has had a two year
history of dyspnea on exertion.  In the last several months
prior to this admission, he has noted increase in his
symptoms.  He was ultimately evaluated by his cardiologist,
with a cardiac catheterization as well as an echocardiogram,
and the cardiac catheterization data revealed three vessel
coronary artery disease with severe left ventricular
dysfunction.  There was no evidence of mitral regurgitation
or aortic stenosis.  Cardiac echocardiogram data actually
showed mitral valve prolapse with moderate mitral
regurgitation and the ejection fraction was approximately 40
to 45%.

ALLERGIES:   None.

MEDICATIONS:   Glucophage 500 mg once daily, Glyburide 5 mg
by mouth twice a day, Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once daily,
hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg by mouth once daily, Zestril 10 mg
by mouth once daily, lasix 20 mg by mouth once daily,
potassium chloride 10 mEq by mouth once daily, Coreg 3.125 mg
by mouth twice a day, aspirin 81 mg by mouth once daily.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Significant for mother and brother who are
both status post coronary artery bypass graft, sister with
coronary artery disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   He has no tobacco history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   On presentation, he had a blood
pressure of 126/63, heart rate 56, respiratory rate 18,
oxygen saturation 98%.  Well-appearing 70-year-old male, in
no acute distress, grossly intact skin.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat examination was unremarkable.  The neck was
supple.  The lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
The heart was regular rate and rhythm, with an S1 and S2,
with no murmur noted.  The abdomen was slightly distended,
soft, nontender, positive bowel sounds.  The extremities were
warm, with no edema.  There were no varicosities noted.
Neurologically, he was grossly intact.  He had palpable
pulses at the femoral bilaterally.  Left dorsalis pedis was
nonpalpable and the right Dopplerable, posterior tibial was
palpable on the left and right, radial was also palpable left
and right.  There were no carotid bruits appreciated.

LABORATORY DATA:   Pending at the time of initial evaluation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was therefore brought to the
operating room for elective coronary artery bypass grafting.
On [**2173-11-19**], he went to the operating room, where he underwent
a four vessel coronary artery bypass graft including a left
internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending, a
saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery,
another saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal, and
another saphenous vein graft to the ramus.  The patient
tolerated the procedure well.

Postoperative ejection fraction was noted to be approximately
35% by transesophageal echocardiogram, with 1 to 2+ mitral
regurgitation.  The patient was rapidly extubated on the
night of the operation.  He had no issues in his first
postoperative day.  He was maintained on an insulin drip.
His postoperative laboratories included a white count of
15,000, hematocrit of 33, platelets 110, potassium 4.6,
calcium 1.09.  BUN and creatinine were normal.  The patient
had his chest tubes removed on postoperative day one.  He was
started on a cardiac diet, as well as diabetic diet.  His
Lopressor, lasix and aspirin were additionally started after
his Swan was removed.  He was transferred to the floor and
hemodynamically stable.  Chest tubes had been removed.  His
Foley catheter was subsequently removed on postoperative day
number two.  The patient was without complaints, and he was
already ambulating at a Level II on postoperative day number
two.  His sternum was stable.  There was no drainage.  He was
afebrile.  His laboratories were remarkable for a hematocrit
of 27, down from 33, white count stable at 15, BUN and
creatinine 32 and 1.3, up from .9 postoperatively.  Therefore
his diuresis was decreased from lasix twice a day to once
daily.  His Lopressor was titrated accordingly to 25 mg twice
a day for heart rates of 80s to 90s that were in sinus.  His
hematocrit drop was felt to be secondary to postoperative
state, and revascularization as well as chest tube losses.

His hematocrit was watched and, on postoperative day number
three, his hematocrit was stable at 26.  The remainder of his
electrolytes were unremarkable.  His renal function was
preserved, with a creatinine of 1.1.  He was ambulating and
tolerating a regular diet.  He was urinating spontaneously,
and he had no tubes.  Wires were discontinued.  He was Level
V by activity after completing the stairs with Physical
Therapy.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:   Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Severe coronary artery disease status post coronary
artery bypass graft x 4, left internal mammary artery to left
anterior descending, saphenous vein graft to posterior
descending artery, saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal,
saphenous vein graft to ramus.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:   Glucophage 500 mg by mouth once
daily, Glyburide 5 mg by mouth twice a day, Lipitor 10 mg by
mouth once daily, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg by mouth once
daily, Zestril 10 mg by mouth once daily, lasix 20 mg by
mouth once daily, potassium chloride 10 mEq by mouth once
daily, aspirin 325 mg by mouth once daily, Lopressor 25 mg by
mouth twice a day, percocet 5/325 one to two tablets by mouth
every four to six hours as needed for pain, Motrin 600 mg by
mouth three times a day with meals as needed for pain, Colace
100 mg by mouth twice a day as long as he is on percocet.

The patient will have follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in
approximately six weeks.  He will have a wound check in the
Wound Care Clinic in one week here at [**Hospital1 190**] on Far 6 with the Physician's Assistant
Clinic, as well as seeing his cardiologist in follow up in
approximately three to four weeks from the time of this
discharge.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 1112**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3113**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3204**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2173-11-21**]  23:38
T:  [**2173-11-22**]  00:00
JOB#:  [**Job Number 37618**]
