Admission Date:  [**2127-3-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2127-3-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2051-10-9**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Hospital6 733**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 35-year-old
gentleman with a past medical history significant for
coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass
graft times four in [**2119**], with a patent graft in [**2126**],
congestive heart failure, type 2 diabetes (with neuropathy
and retinopathy), status post femoral-to-popliteal bypass for
peripheral vascular disease, recurrent urinary tract
infections, nephrolithiasis, and abdominal aortic aneurysm
repair who was at home when his wife noted significant
dizziness and called 911.

The patient reports having dizziness and decreased oral
intake for the past three days, burning on urination, and
diarrhea.  On the night prior to admission, he experienced
lightheadedness and fell to the floor but did not hit his
head.  During this time he also continued to take all of his
medications including his Lasix.

He was brought to [**Hospital1 69**] where
his blood pressure was found to be 115/50 which subsequently
dropped to 88/39.  His lactate was increased at 7.5, and his
white blood cell count was 19.5.  His temperature was 100.6.
He qualified for the sepsis protocol which was initiated in
the Emergency Department.  The patient was started on
dobutamine and Levophed, and he received 3 liters of normal
saline in the Emergency Department.  He also received
levofloxacin and Flagyl intravenously.

The patient was transferred to the [**Hospital Ward Name 332**] Intensive Care Unit
for further care.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease; status post coronary artery
bypass graft times four vessels in [**2119**] with patent grafts in
[**2126**].
 2.  Congestive heart failure (with a normal ejection
fraction).
 3.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
 4.  Osteoarthritis.
 5.  Pacemaker.
 6.  Recurrent urinary tract infections.
 7.  Nephrolithiasis.
 8.  Excised skin cancer (basal cell) from right nose.
 9.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post left popliteal
bypass.
10.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in [**2119**].
11.  Cataract repair.
12.  Status post hernia repair.

ALLERGIES:  TETANUS SHOT (causes swelling).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Lopressor 25 mg twice per day.
 2.  Lasix 80 mg twice per day.
 3.  Lipitor 10 mg once per day.
 4.  Aspirin 325 mg once per day.
 5.  Diovan 80 mg once per day.
 6.  NPH insulin 40 in the morning and 34 in the evening.
 7.  Neurontin 300 mg twice per day.
 8.  Ativan 1 mg by mouth at hour of sleep as needed.
 9.  Nexium 40 mg once per day.
10.  Sublingual nitroglycerin as needed.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a remote tobacco history.
He is a retired carpenter.  He drinks only occasionally.  He
lives with his wife.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature was 99,
his blood pressure was 126/41, his pulse was 92, his
respiratory rate was 28, and he was saturating 98% on 4
liters.  In general, this was a pleasant, conversational, but
fatigued-appearing gentleman in no acute distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed a right
surgical pupil.  The left pupil was reactive.  The
extraocular movements were intact.  The oropharynx was clear.
The mucous membranes were dry.  Cardiovascular examination
revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  Normal first heart
sounds and second heart sounds.  There was a 2/6 systolic
murmur heard best at the left sternal border with no
radiation.  Pulmonary examination revealed the patient had
fair air movement and crackles at the right base.  The
abdomen was soft and protuberant.  Nontender except for the
left lower quadrant where there was slight tenderness.
Extremities revealed no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  There
were palpable pulses bilaterally.  Neurologic examination
revealed the patient was alert and oriented.  Cranial nerves
II through XII were intact.  The patient was moving all
extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  White blood
cell count was 19.6 (95% neutrophils, and 2% bands, and 2%
lymphocytes) and his hematocrit was 33.2.  Chemistry-7 was
significant for a bicarbonate of 22, blood urea nitrogen of
37, and creatinine of 2.7 (which was increased from his
baseline of 1).  Liver function tests were within normal
limits.  His lactate on admission was elevated at 7.1.
Creatine kinase was 1022, MB was 12, MB index was 1.2, and
his troponin was 0.25.  Urinalysis revealed moderate
leukocytes, greater than 50 white blood cells, and many
bacteria.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed
pacemaker leads.  Right internal jugular in place.  The lung
fields were clear.

An electrocardiogram revealed a paced rhythm at 92.

A computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis without
contrast revealed hydronephrosis, but no stones.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   The
patient was admitted to the [**Hospital Ward Name 332**] Intensive Care Unit for
aggressive monitoring on a sepsis protocol.  When he had a
stable blood pressure and remained off pressors for greater
than 24 hours, and was otherwise stable, the patient was
transferred to the floor on [**2127-3-25**].

1.  HYPOTENSION ISSUES:  The patient's hypotension was likely
secondary to hypovolemia given his decreased oral intake and
diarrhea, and also sepsis from a urologic source.  The
patient was continued on the sepsis protocol and was
initially started on Levophed and dobutamine through a right
internal jugular central venous catheter which had been
placed.  The patient was eventually weaned from pressors and
had stable blood pressures after that.   As the patient's
blood pressure had been stable for approximately 24 hours,
the patient was restarted on his home blood pressure
medications and tolerated these well.

2.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient with a urinary
tract infection and urosepsis.  The patient was started on
levofloxacin and Flagyl awaiting further culture results.
The patient's urine cultures grew gram-negative rods, and he
was continued on levofloxacin with a plan for a 14-day
course.  The patient's stool was sent for Clostridium
difficile and ova and parasites; these were negative.  The
patient's diarrhea improved throughout his hospitalization.
The patient's diarrhea was likely due to a viral etiology.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR/CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE ISSUES:  The
patient with a significant history of coronary artery
disease; however, patent grafts in [**2126**].  The patient had an
elevated troponin in the setting of acute renal failure.  He
also had an elevated creatine kinase and MB.  The patient
likely had a small episode of myocardial infarction secondary
to demand ischemia in the setting of hypotension.  The
patient was continued on his aspirin and statin.  His beta
blocker and angiotensin receptor blocker were added back as
his blood pressure tolerated.

The patient had an echocardiogram on [**3-25**] to assess for
possible focal wall motion abnormalities given the evidence
of a troponin leak and myocardial infarction.  The patient's
ejection fraction remained at 60%.  He had moderately dilated
left atrium and right atrium and 1+ mitral regurgitation,
which was not significantly changed from prior.

4.  ACUTE RENAL FAILURE ISSUES:  The patient had a previous
baseline creatinine of 0.9 to 1.  The patient was admitted
with a creatinine of 2.7.  This was likely secondary to
hypoperfusion as well as prerenal etiologies given the
diarrhea and continued diuretic regimen he had been on at
home.  The patient's medications were originally renally
dosed.  He was aggressively hydrated, and his creatinine
returned to baseline at the time of discharge.

5.  ANEMIA ISSUES:  The patient with a baseline hematocrit of
approximately 28 to 30.  His hematocrit dropped from an
admission hematocrit of 33 down to 27.  After hydration,
given the issue of potentially active cardiac ischemia, the
patient was transfused one unit of packed red blood cells to
a hematocrit of greater than 30.  The patient again required
another transfusion of one unit during this admission.  The
patient had no evidence for gastrointestinal bleed