Admission Date:  [**2167-10-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2167-10-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2098-10-30**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

REASON FOR ADMISSION:  Reason for transfer from an outside
hospital was for further treatment of severe congestive heart
failure.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 68-year-old
woman with a history of coronary artery disease (status post
myocardial infarction in [**2161**] and status post right coronary
artery stent), rheumatic heart disease (with 2 to 3+ mitral
regurgitation, moderate mitral stenosis with a valve area of
0.9 cm2 and a gradient of 11 mmHg), congestive heart failure
(with an ejection fraction of 20% to 25%), atrial
fibrillation (status post biventricular pacemaker placement
but not cardioverted due to left atrial clot seen on
[**2167-7-19**] and [**2167-9-18**] transesophageal
echocardiograms).  The patient also had a chronic right
pleural effusion (status post therapeutic thoracentesis) in
the recent past and severe chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (on home oxygen).

She presented to an outside hospital with weakness,
hemoptysis with dime-size clots, and worsening dyspnea on
exertion.  The initially impression at the outside hospital
was that she was in decompensated congestive heart failure
and was given Lasix as well as antibiotics for a possible
pneumonia.  Her Coumadin was held as her INR was
supracervical at 4.7.  She was diuresed with Lasix and was
becoming hypotensive.  She was started on dopamine and
dobutamine and transferred to the [**Hospital1 190**] for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Cardiomyopathy with a left ventricular ejection fraction
of 25%, severe mitral regurgitation, and mitral stenosis
secondary to rheumatic fever.
2.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction in [**2161**] and status post right coronary artery
stent, atrial fibrillation (on Coumadin).
3.  Cerebrovascular accident in [**2167-7-19**] with
subsequent left-sided weakness.
4.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and chronic right
lower lobe infiltrate (on home oxygen).

ALLERGIES:  Allergies include AMOXICILLIN.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Medications at the time of transfer
included aspirin, Ambien, multivitamin, Lipitor, digoxin
0.125 mg p.o. q.d., captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix 120 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Carvedilol 3.125; Coumadin was held.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Social history was not obtainable.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Examination on
admission revealed the patient was afebrile with a
temperature of 97.4, heart rate was 104, blood pressure
ranged from 96 to 108/62 to 70, respiratory rate was 35.  In
general, she appeared uncomfortable and was tachypneic.  She
had mild scleral icterus.  Her lungs had decreased breath
sounds; particularly at the right base, with dullness to
percussion and diffuse rales.  Her heart examination revealed
normal first heart sound and second heart sound with a 2/6
systolic ejection murmur with a diastolic soft component.
Her abdomen was soft and nontender.  Her liver was palpable
approximately 8 cm below the right costal margin.  Her
extremities had 1 to 2+ peripheral edema with dopplerable
pulses bilaterally.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories at
the time of admission revealed white blood cell count was
15.1, hematocrit was 39.3, and platelets were 262.  INR was
4.6.  Chemistry-7 was unremarkable except for a bicarbonate
of 19, a blood urea nitrogen of 22, and creatinine of 1.  INR
was repeated at the time of arrival which was 3.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  On the morning
following admission, the patient was found to be in worsening
respiratory distress using multiple accessory muscles for
respiration and was found to be tiring.  She was again asked
if she wanted to be intubated, and she responded in the
affirmative.  Anesthesia was called, and the patient was
electively intubated and placed on ventilator.

Shortly thereafter she had a Swan-Ganz catheter placed which
showed elevated filling pressures with pulmonary artery
filling pressures of 60/35, and a wedge pressure of 30.
Using these numbers, she was diuresed accordingly with
intravenous Lasix.  She was tried on multiple combinations of
pressors including dopamine, dobutamine, Milrinone, and
Natrecor; none of which effectively increased her renal
perfusion and urine output nor her cardiac output and index.

On [**2167-10-26**], she became febrile; spiking temperatures
up to 102.  Her white blood cell count was increasing;
reaching a peak of 29.  Cultures were sent including sputum,
blood cultures, and urine cultures.  Sputum cultures
ultimately grew out Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa.  The urine cultures had gram-negative rods which
were not yet typed at the time of this dictation.  The
patient developed septic physiology with a transient increase
in her cardiac output and a decrease in her systemic vascular
resistance.  She was treated with broad spectrum antibiotics
and continued on pressors.

Her liver function tests continued to climb with her
transaminases reaching near 200, and her total bilirubin
reaching a peak of 8.2.  The patient's skin became further
jaundiced, and a right upper quadrant ultrasound had been
ordered to evaluate for acute cholecystitis as gallstones had
been seen on ultrasounds from the prior hospitalization.  The
right upper quadrant ultrasound was actually never performed.

On [**2167-10-26**], the patient's right pleural effusion was
tapped; removing 1400 cc of cloudy pleural fluid.  The
cultures from the fluid grew no organisms, and this appeared
to be exudative; likely a parapneumonic effusion.  By this
time, her pressors were changed to Levophed and Vasopressin
to maintain blood pressures.

On [**2167-10-28**], the Coronary Care Unit resident had a
long conversation with the patient's family regarding
prognosis and possible quality of life following this
hospitalization.  If the patient were ever to be extubated,
it was decided at that time that her prognosis was very poor
and hope for a quality of life equal to what she had prior to
admission was unlikely.

The family decided at that time to make the patient do not
resuscitate/do not intubate status; specifically, treating as
comfort measures only.  Antibiotic and pressor support were
withdrawn after morphine constant infusion was initiated, and
there was every assurance that the patient was comfortable.
She expired on [**2167-10-29**] at 8:38 a.m.  The patient
family was notified and declined postmortem evaluation.





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8227**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 3491**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2167-10-29**]  15:37
T:  [**2167-11-3**]  09:39
JOB#:  [**Job Number 45017**]
