Admission Date:  [**2104-4-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2104-4-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2029-8-6**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Medical Intensive Care Unit

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Pustular discharge from implantable
cardioverter-defibrillator pocket.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old
female with a past medical history significant for coronary
artery disease status post three-vessel coronary artery
bypass graft surgery x 2, aortic stenosis status post aortic
valve replacement, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and hypertension
with a prolonged complicated recent hospital course at [**Hospital1 1444**] from [**1-30**] to [**2104-3-26**].  The patient was transferred from an outside hospital
on [**2104-1-30**] with new onset atrial fibrillation with
rapid ventricular rate and non-ST elevation myocardial
infarction for cardiac catheterization.  On cardiac
catheterization the patient was noted to have left main and
two-vessel disease with elevated pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure and severe pulmonary hypertension.  On [**2-5**],
the patient underwent redo coronary artery bypass grafting
with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to the
diagonal, and saphenous vein graft to the posterior
descending coronary artery.  The patient's postoperative
course was complicated by hypotension requiring pressors,
failure to extubate, atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular rate with failure to cardiovert, and acutely
worsening congestive heart failure with a decreased ejection
fraction of less than 20% (prior to coronary artery bypass
grafting the patient's ejection fraction was 50%).  The
patient returned for relook cardiac catheterization with
noted acute graft closure and underwent percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty and stenting of the left
internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending
coronary artery, and saphenous vein graft to the diagonal.

Post cardiac catheterization the patient developed acute
renal failure with volume overload requiring CVVH, worsening
heart failure requiring intra-aortic balloon pump complicated
by rectus sheath hematoma, and ventricular fibrillation
arrest requiring amiodarone and lidocaine.  The patient again
failed to extubate on multiple occasions and a tracheostomy
was placed on [**3-2**].  The patient also underwent PEG
tube placement on [**3-4**] and PICC line placement on
[**3-7**].  An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator was
placed on [**3-11**] with dual pacer (the delay in
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placement was
secondary to multiple infections throughout the
hospitalization including yeast graft harvest site, wound
infection, Enterobacter bacteremia, C. difficile colitis, and
yeast cystitis).  Two days post ICD placement, the patient
developed greater than 70 episodes of ventricular
fibrillation/ventricular tachycardia.  A repeat
echocardiogram demonstrated a thrombus on the aortic valve
anterior leaflet.  The patient was started on TPA for a total
of 24 hours with significant improvement in her aortic valve
gradient.  However, the patient subsequently developed an ICD
pocket hematoma requiring operating room evacuation on [**3-17**].  The patient was eventually discharged to rehabilitation
on [**2104-3-26**].

Since discharge the patient has remained hemodynamically
stable without further episodes of ventricular fibrillation
and the patient has been undergoing a progressive weaning
trial from the ventilator with signs of success.  The patient
has also remained afebrile, however two days prior to the
current admission, the patient was noted to have significant
erythema around the ICD pocket site.  Twenty-four hours later
the patient was noted to have blood and pus draining
spontaneously from the site and the patient was transferred
to [**Hospital1 69**] for ICD removal.  The
patient received one dose of vancomycin the morning of
admission while at rehabilitation.  The patient denied fever,
chills, abdominal pain, shortness of breath, chest pain as
well as diarrhea.  Of note, the patient has been off
diuretics since [**4-7**] for prerenal azotemia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular rate (on amiodarone).  2. Hypertension.  3.
Hypercholesterolemia.  4. Peripheral vascular disease.  5.
Status post right bilateral carotid endarterectomy (left,
[**2102-7-26**]; right [**2101-9-20**]).  6. Type 2 diabetes
mellitus.  7. Coronary artery disease with three-vessel
disease status post coronary artery bypass grafting in [**2092**]
and redo coronary artery bypass grafting on [**2104-2-5**].
Repeat catheterization on [**2104-2-9**] with percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty and stenting to the
LIMA-LAD-SVG-diagonal.  8. Congestive heart failure with
biventricular failure.  Echocardiogram in [**2104-2-16**] had
an ejection fraction of less than 20%, severely depressed
left ventricular systolic function, severe global right
ventricular free wall hypokinesis, 2+ mitral regurgitation,
2+ tricuspid regurgitation, and bileaflet aortic valve
without aortic regurgitation and normal gradient.  9. History
of ventricular fibrillation arrest between [**2-18**] and
[**3-13**] status post ICD placement with dual pacer
[**3-11**].  10. Prosthetic aortic valve thrombosis status
post TPA thrombolysis complicated by ICD hematoma requiring
operating room evacuation.  11. Failure to wean from the
respiratory ventilator status post coronary artery bypass
graft, status post tracheostomy on [**3-2**], vent
dependent.  12. History of depression.  13. Status post PEG
tube.  14. Status post right rectus sheath hematoma
evacuation.  15. Aortic stenosis status post aortic valve
replacement (St. [**Male First Name (un) 923**]) in [**2092**] on Coumadin.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1. Amiodarone 400 mg p.o. q.d.  2.
Synthroid 25 mg p.o. q.d.  3. Glipizide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.  4.
Reglan 10 mg per PEG tube t.i.d.  5. Coumadin 3 mg per PEG
tube q.h.s.  6. Insulin sliding scale.  7. Oxycodone.  8.
Lansoprazole 30 mg per PEG tube q. day.  9. Aldactone 25 mg
per PEG tube q. day (held since [**4-7**]).  10. Lasix 80 mg
per PEG tube b.i.d. (held since [**4-7**]).  11. Zaroxolyn 5
mg per PEG tube q. day (held since [**4-4**]).  12. Aspirin
325 mg p.o. q. day.  13. Vitamin C 500 mg p.o. q.d.  14.
Multivitamins one q. day.  15. Zinc 270 mg p.o. q.d.  16.
Albuterol metered dose inhaler q. 4 hours p.r.n.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a widow with a 15-pack-year
tobacco history (he quit greater than 15 years ago), with no
history of alcohol excess.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.4, heart rate 72, blood
pressure 103/34, respiratory rate 17, oxygen saturation 97%
on CPAP pressure support of 15, PEEP of 5 and FIO2 of 50%.
General:  The patient is a nontoxic appearing elderly female
in no acute distress.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic,
pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation, extraocular movements intact bilaterally, dry
mucous membranes, no thrush, edentulous.  Neck:  Supple, no
lymphadenopathy, tracheostomy in place.  Cardiovascular:
Regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 with a 3/6
systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border
radiating to the neck.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally anteriorly with no rhonchi, and well-healed
midline sternal incision.  ICD site dressing clean, dry and
intact.  Abdomen:  Soft, normal active bowel sounds,
nontender, nondistended, no hepatosplenomegaly, PEG tube in
place, clean, dry and intact.  Extremities:  No cyanosis,
clubbing or edema, warm and well perfused, with 1+ dorsalis
pedis and posterior tibial pulses bilaterally, left lower
extremity thigh wound at the graft incision packed with
occlusive dressing and no purulent drainage.  Neurologic:
Nonfocal.

LABORATORY DATA:  Complete blood count with a white blood
cell count of 10.7, hematocrit 27.9, platelet count 315.
Chem-7 with a sodium of 131, potassium 3.8, chloride 93,
bicarbonate 28, BUN 70, creatinine 1.2, and glucose 455
(status post two amps of D50 for a glucose of