Admission Date:  [**2192-8-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2192-8-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2138-4-20**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Company 191**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54 year-old man
who was recently discharged on [**8-8**].  He was
instructed by renal medicine to hold off on taking his Lasix
and Zaroxolyn as he had been over diuresed in the previous
three weeks and was admitted to the hospital for rehydration,
because of nausea and vomiting.  Unfortunately it is not
clear whether the patient was compliant or not, but he began
complaining of shortness of breath when lying supine.  This
was approximately four hours after discharge.  His symptoms
were relieved when he sat up and again recurrent when he
tried to lay flat to sleep.  After about four attempts his
wife called the ambulance and he was brought back to the
Emergency Department at [**Hospital1 69**].

This is a 54 year-old man with a history of coronary artery
disease, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, diabetic nephropathy,
chronic renal failure/nephrotic syndrome.  After the patient
was brought into the Emergency Department he was given
intravenous Lasix and successfully diuresed after which his
breathing began to grossly improve as well as his O2 sats.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was then admitted to the [**Hospital Ward Name 8559**] [**Company 191**] Service for triple monitoring of his renal
function and hydration status.  During his stay the patient
developed one episode of left sided chest pain.  The nature
of this episode was not clear as the patient noted that he
had one episode of belching followed by a burning sensation
followed by left sided chest pain, which is partially
relieved by Maalox as well as partially relieved by,
according to the patient, one sublingual nitroglycerin.
Electrocardiogram taken at that time showed no changes with
previous electrocardiograms and no rise in cardiac enzymes
were noted when these chemistries were sent off.

Of note, the patient's chemistries were somewhat ambiguous
upon admission, though he had no initial complaints of chest
pain except for the episode described above.  Troponin I was
elevated.  CKMB remained within normal limits and CK was
elevated.  Given the patient's renal failure as well as
notatin of laboratory before that initial samples were
moderately hemolyzed.  It was initially believed that the
elevated troponin number and CK numbers were believed to be a
combination of both hemolysis as well as the patient's renal
function that in conjunction with the patient being
asymptomatic with no chest pain and no noted
electrocardiogram changes.

The patient was monitored.  However, after the episode of
belching with the left sided chest pain cardiology felt that
given his past cardiac history including a prior myocardial
infarction treated with coronary artery bypass graft and
stent placement that they should evaluate him for cardiac
catheterization.  The patient underwent cardiac
catheterization on [**8-13**].  The catheterization report
indicated he had 70% stenosis in proximal right coronary
artery.  The mid right coronary artery was


DICTATION ENDS ABRUPTLY



                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 1569**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 8560**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8561**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 8562**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2192-8-19**]  23:00
T:  [**2192-8-27**]  05:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 8563**]
