Admission Date: [**2153-6-14**]        Discharge Date: [**2153-7-24**]

Date of Birth:  [**2114-4-24**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) 7081**]


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Aortic dissection.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 39 year old man with
the sudden onset of mediastinal pain. No prior history of
pain or cardiac problems. [**Name (NI) **] presented to an outside
hospital, where a CAT scan showed a type A dissection. The
patient was then transferred emergently to the [**Hospital **] [**Hospital **]
[**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant only for asthma and GERD.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS:  Meds at home include Combivent and occasional
Prilosec.

ALLERGIES:  no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco use. Occasional alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital Signs: Heart rate 62. Blood
pressure 110/54. Respiratory rate 20. General: No acute
distress. HEENT: Sclerae icteric. Conjunctivae non-injected.
Mucous membranes moist. Neck is supple with no
lymphadenopathy. Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm with 3/6 murmur at
the right sternal border. Pulses are symmetrical bilaterally.
Abdomen is soft and nontender and nondistended. Extremities:
Warm and well perfused with no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.
Neuro: Alert and oriented x3. Moves all extremities. Nonfocal
exam.

LABORATORY DATA:  Sodium 140, potassium 4.4, chloride 106,
CO2 26, BUN 14, creatinine 1.4, glucose 109, albumin 3.4.
White count 5.4, hematocrit 39, platelets 278.

Chest CT with ascending aortic dissection through the arch to
the abdominal aorta. No pericardial effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was brought emergently to the
operating room. Please see the OR report for full details. In
summary, he had an emergent ascending aorta repair with a #28
sidearm Gelweave graft, as well as an AVR with a #25
[**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor First Name 7624**] pericardial valve. His bypass time was
158 minutes with a cross clamp time of 124 minutes, and circ
arrest of 16 minutes. He tolerated the operation well and was
transferred to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit. At the
time of transfer he was in a sinus rhythm at 100 beats per
minute. He had propofol infusion at 20 mics per kilogram per
minute and nitroglycerin at 1.5 mics per kilogram per minute.

In the immediate postoperative period, the patient remained
hemodynamically stable. However, he had a fair amount of
bleeding and required several transfusions of packed red
blood cells, as well as fresh frozen plasma. The patient also
had difficulty with ventilation. An initial attempt to awaken
the patient, his O2 sats dropped into the 80's. Following
several recuperative breaths, the patient was re-sedated and
chemically paralyzed. Over the next several days the patient
continued to experience difficulty with ventilation. By chest
x-ray it appeared that he had early onset ARDS. A pulmonary
consult was called.

Additionally the patient suffered from persistent fevers, for
which he was pan cultured on numerous occasions. Infectious
disease consult was also called. Eventually the patient grew
methicillin sensitive staph from his sputum and was treated
with appropriate antibiotics.

From a respiratory standpoint the patient remained paralyzed
and sedated and fully ventilated. He had numerous
bronchoscopies.

Over the next week or so, the patient made slow progress from
a pulmonary standpoint, to the point where the paralytics
were to be discontinued. However, every attempt to turn down
his sedation and remove the paralytics was met with increased
hypoxia, as well as acidosis requiring reinstitution of these
measures. During this entire period the patient was
undergoing bronchoscopy on an every other day basis.

On postoperative day 9 the patient was noted to have
bilateral pleural effusions. A right thoracentesis was
performed on that day and drained about 600 cc of
serosanguineous fluid. Later in the day the patient became
hemodynamically unstable. A chest x-ray revealed a left-sided
pneumothorax. Bilateral chest tubes were placed and a Swan-
Ganz catheter was also placed. Additionally following the
placement of the Swan-Ganz catheter, the patient appeared to
be septic and his antibiotic coverage was broadened.

The patient recovered from this setback, and by postoperative
day 14 the patient's paralytics were discontinued. He did,
however, continue to require full ventilation and was sedated
with morphine and Ativan, which were slowly weaned over the
next several days.

Over the course of the next week, the patient continued to
make progress with his vent wean, until postoperative day 24,
when the patient was strictly on pressure support, he
developed a mucous plug, then became bradycardic and
ultimately had a short period of asystole. With aggressive
pulmonary toilet, as well as bag ventilation, the patient
recovered from this episode. An EP consult was called. They
saw no need for a temporary or permanent pacemaker at this
point. However, thoracic surgery was also consulted and a
trache and PEG were placed on postoperative day 25, following
which the patient had an episode of atrial fibrillation, from
which he was DC cardioverted into a sinus rhythm. Following
trache and PEG placement, the patient continued to make
progress with his pressure support weaned, and by
postoperative day 30 he was having trache mask trials. By
postoperative day 33 he was on strictly trache mask. At the
time of this dictation the patient has been on trache call
for approximately 5 days without requiring any ventilatory
support.

DICTATION ENDS HERE



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5662**], [**MD Number(1) 5663**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1718**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2153-7-24**] 10:40:57
T:  [**2153-7-24**] 11:50:24
Job#:  [**Job Number 61482**]
