Admission Date: [**2130-9-12**]        Discharge Date: [**2130-10-14**]

Date of Birth:  [**2087-10-29**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Patient is a postoperative admit, who was
admitted directly to the operating room, where he underwent
an Bentall procedure with repair of the ascending aortic
aneurysm and AVR with a number 27 mechanical valve and
ligation of the PDA.  Chief complaint prior to admission was
dyspnea on exertion.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 42-year-old man in the
hospital in [**2128**] for sleep apnea, pulmonary hypertension, cor
pulmonale, treated with diuretics, but at that time noted to
have a bicuspid aortic valve and dilated ascending aorta.
Cardiac echocardiogram done in [**2130-6-6**] showed an
ejection fraction of 65 percent with an ascending aortic
arch.  The aorta at the ascending arch was 4 cm, 1 plus AI,
and bicuspid aortic valve.  On [**8-2**], she had a cardiac
catheterization that showed 3 plus aortic regurgitation, 1
plus mitral regurgitation, and EF of 50 percent, a long
ascending aortic aneurysm greater than 5 cm above the valve,
mild pulmonary hypertension, and no coronary disease.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Obesity.

Obstructive-sleep apnea.

Pulmonary hypertension.

Right heart failure.

Left eye prosthesis.

Gout.

Recently diagnosed with diabetes mellitus and placed on oral
agents.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:
1. Atenolol 25 q.d.
2. Digoxin 0.125 q.d.
3. Aldactone 25 mg q.d.
4. Lisinopril 5 mg q.d.
5. Lasix, which was stopped a week prior to admission.
6. Glipizide 5 mg q.d.
7. Avandia 4 mg q.d.


ALLERGIES:  Patient states no known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother and father are both alive in their
70's.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with parents.  Runs a heating and air
conditioning company.  Denies tobacco use.  Alcohol [**3-14**]
drinks once or twice per month.  No other recreational drug
use.

Patient also had a cardiac MRI prior to this catheterization,
which showed right ventricular EF of 53 percent, bicuspid
aortic valve with moderate AI.  Severely dilated ascending
aorta with dilated sinus of Valsalva.  Left ventricular EF
was 69 percent.  Forward flow ejection fraction estimated at
44 percent.  Mild bilateral atrial enlargement, moderately
dilated main PA artery.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Heart rate 62, blood pressure 106/59,
respiratory rate 20, and O2 saturation 96 percent on room
air, 5'7", weight 230 pounds.  General:  Obese young man.
Skin:  Small scab ulcer around the pinnae from the BiPAP
mask.  HEENT:  Nonicteric.  Left eye prosthesis.  Right eye
reacts to light.  Neck is supple.  No JVD, no bruits.  Chest
was clear to auscultation.  Heart:  Regular, rate, and
rhythm, S1, S2, no murmur.  Abdomen is soft, nontender with
no hepatosplenomegaly or CVA tenderness.  Extremities are
warm and well perfused with no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.
Two plus dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses.
Neurologic:  Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly
intact, nonfocal exam, 5/5 strength in all four extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 7.7, hematocrit 37.6, platelets
256.  PT 12.9, PTT 25, INR 1.1.  Sodium 134, potassium 4.5,
chloride 101, CO2 25, BUN 17, creatinine 1.1, and glucose
299.  LFTs are all within normal limits.

Chest x-ray:  No acute cardiopulmonary process.  Finding
consistent with known ascending aortic aneurysm.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  As stated previously, the patient was a
direct admission to the operating room.  Please see the
operative report for full details.  In summary, the patient
had Bentall procedure with repair of ascending aortic
aneurysm with a number 28 wave graft  and a number 30 conduit
and aortic valve replacement and a number 27 St. [**Male First Name (un) 923**]
mechanical valve and a PDA ligation.  Patient's
cardiopulmonary bypass time was 243 minutes with a cross-
clamp time of 211 minutes.  Patient was transferred from the
operating room to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.  At
the time of transfer, the patient was in sinus rhythm at 78
beats per minute with a CVP of 12 and a PAD of 16.  He was on
Neo-Synephrine drip at 0.5 mcg/kg/minute and propofol at 20
mcg/kg/minute as well as milrinone infusion.

Patient did well in the immediate postoperative period.  His
anesthesia was reversed.  During the course of the
postoperative day and through that evening, he was weaned
from an IMV to CPAP.  He remained intubated overnight with
CPAP pressure support ventilation.  He continued to do well
on the morning of postoperative day one and wean was
continued to CPAP 5 and 5.  With that, the patient became
acutely hypotensive and was begun on a Nipride infusion
following which the patient was successfully extubated.

Over the next several days, the patient continued to struggle
from a respiratory standpoint complaining of shortness of
breath and sporadically desaturating.  By the 7th, he
continued to complain of increasing shortness of breath.  He
had a chest x-ray that showed pleural effusion, following
which a chest tube was placed and the effusion was drained
for approximately 400 cc.  However, following that, the
patient continued to complain of shortness of breath and
therefore an echocardiogram was done to assess for a
pericardial effusion.  An echocardiogram at that time showed
a small to moderate size pericardial effusion.  Repeat
echocardiogram done on the 10th showed 3 cm circumferential
effusion following which the patient went to the Cath Lab and
had a pericardial tap for 650 cc.

On the 11th, the patient continued to complain of shortness
of breath.  Bronchoscopy done at that time showed left lower
lobe compression with airway edema.  Patient was reintubated
following bronchoscopy secondary to respiratory distress at
that time.  A Swan-Ganz line was placed as well as a femoral
A-line and Interventional Pulmonology was consulted.

On [**9-21**], the patient had periodic episodes of
ventricular tachycardia.  He was started on amiodarone and
cardioverted, and Electrophysiology was consulted.  Following
cardioversion, the patient had alternating periods of A-V
block and SVT rhythm.  EP service placed a temporary pacing
wire.  Patient was returned to the Cath Lab at that time, and
recatheterized, which showed no apparent CAD.  An ablation
was done by the Electrophysiology service at that time as
well.

On the 13th, the patient had an elevated white blood cell
count and a fever.  Infectious Diseases were consulted.  She
was returned to the operating room for mediastinal washout
and placement of permanent bipolar pacing leads.  Patient
tolerated this operation well and was transferred back to the
Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.  Please see the OR report
for full details.

Over the next week, the patient was hemodynamically stable.
Several attempts were made to wean the patient from the
ventilator all unsuccessfully.  Interventional Pulmonology
continued to consult on the patient and on the [**9-29**], the patient was brought back to the operating room at
which time tracheal and left main stents were placed.

On the 21st, the patient had a follow-up bronchoscopy and was
successfully extubated.  He did well over the next several
days.  Passed a swallow test, and on the 24th, he was again
bronched as a followup, at which time copious secretions were
removed.  Bronch also showed that the patient had migration
of the tracheal stent and he was brought again to the
operating room at which time the tracheal stent was removed,
and he was reintubated.  The patient did well during this
procedure, and was transferred back to the Cardiothoracic
Intensive Care Unit.

Again on the following day, the patient was bronched in the
morning.  It was shown that he had patent airways, and
following the bronchoscopy, he was successfully extubated.
On the [**10-5**], the patient had a PICC line placed for
antibiotics as well as blood draws, and on the [**10-6**], he was transferred from the Cardiothoracic Intensive
Care Unit to [**Hospital Ward Name 121**] 2 for continuing postoperative care and
cardiac rehabilitation.

Over the next week, the patient's activity level was advanced
with the assistance of the nursing staff and Physical
Therapy.  His 