Admission Date:  [**2161-12-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2162-1-5**]


Service:  ONCOLOGY

CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Worsening dyspnea.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **] year old
woman with metastatic breast cancer, diagnosed in [**2161-11-13**], presenting to [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 3867**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] on
[**2161-12-12**] for shortness of breath times several
weeks, worsening over the last few days.  She does have two
pillow orthopnea but negative paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea,
no chest pain or palpitations.  She has noted increasing
lower extremity edema over the last week.  She has cough
which is productive of white sputum but no night sweats or
weight loss.  She denies fever, chills, nausea or vomiting.
She has been using inhalers but does not feel that they have
been effective with regard to her dyspnea.  She is not on any
oxygen at home.

The patient's previous workup for shortness of breath has
included a CT angiogram on [**2161-12-2**] which was
negative for pulmonary embolism but notable for bilateral
ground-glass opacities.  A transthoracic echocardiogram
showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of greater than
70% with mild aortic and mitral regurgitation.  She has
moderate pericardial effusion as noted by the transthoracic
echocardiogram.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Pernicious anemia.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
3.  Depression.
4.  Bilateral total knee replacements.
5.  Pelvic mass found in the left adnexal region measuring
6 x 4 cm, which is likely metastatic versus primary ovarian
in origin.
6.  Infiltrating ductal carcinoma, ER positive, HR2/neu
negative with omental metastases, retroperitoneal lymph
nodes.  MRI of the head revealed no metastatic disease,
however, bone scan indicated thoracic metastases.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone on the third story
of an apartment building and is independent.  Her daughter
and son-in-law live nearby and are very supportive.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history is significant for coronary
artery disease in the patient's father, however, no family
history of cancer.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Zoloft 100 mg p.o.q.d., Lasix 40
mg p.o.b.i.d., Combivent one to two puffs q.i.d., AeroBid
four puffs b.i.d., vitamin B12 q. month, Femara 2.5 mg
p.o.q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination on admission,
the patient had a temperature of 97, blood pressure 162/82,
heart rate 88, respiratory rate 28, and oxygen saturation 98%
on three liters nasal cannula.  General:  Patient in no acute
distress, resting comfortably in bed, appears younger than
her stated age.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:
Oropharynx clear, moist mucous membranes, jugular venous
pulsation not elevated, neck supple, anicteric sclerae,
extraocular movements intact, no lymphadenopathy present in
the cervical region.  Chest:  Bilateral basilar crackles
without wheezing, left axillary lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate, normal S1 and S2, no S3 or S4,
II/VI murmur at left sternal border.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds, no
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities:  2+ bilateral pitting
edema, no cyanosis or clubbing, 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses
bilaterally, skin warm and dry.  Neurologic examination:
Alert and oriented times three, cranial nerves II through XII
intact, [**5-17**] motor strength in bilateral upper and lower
extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission white blood cell count 6.1,
hematocrit 32.2, platelet count 263,000, sodium 137,
potassium 4.1, chloride 106, bicarbonate 18, BUN 34,
creatinine 1.3, glucose 109.

STUDIES DURING HOSPITALIZATION:
1.  Chest x-ray, [**2161-12-12**] revealed bilateral
interstitial infiltrates, bilateral pleural effusions, mild
congestive heart failure.
2.  Transthoracic echocardiogram, [**2161-12-16**] showed
mild left ventricular hypertrophy, hyperdynamic left
ventricular function with a moderate pericardial effusion, no
change from echocardiogram on [**2161-12-8**].
3.  Transthoracic echocardiogram, [**2162-1-4**] showed
left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 55% with
loculated moderate sized 1.5 cm pericardial effusion with
fibrin deposits on the surface of the heart; no
echocardiographic signs of tamponade; compared with prior
echocardiogram, the pericardial effusion appears loculated at
this point.
4.  Electrocardiogram on admission showed normal sinus
rhythm, Q waves in III and AVF which were old and T wave
abnormalities in V2 through V6 which were nonspecific.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **] year old female with
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, breast cancer and
anemia, who presents with acute worsening of chronic
shortness of breath.

1.  Cardiovascular:  The patient was initially thought to be
in congestive heart failure and was aggressive diuresed until
her creatinine bumped.  She was ruled out for a myocardial
infarction by negative cardiac enzymes on numerous occasions
during her hospitalization.  Serial echocardiograms were
performed times four, which showed moderate sized pericardial
effusion without signs of tamponade but evidence of diastolic
dysfunction.

As the patient's dyspnea did not improve, there was concern
that the effusion was compromising cardiac output and her
ability to mobilize fluid.  Therefore, a pericardial window
was placed on [**2162-1-1**] with greater than 200 cc of
bloody fluid out, and the drain was left in until [**2162-1-5**].  There was no improvement in the patient's dyspnea
after the window was placed and the pericardial drainage tube
was pulled.

As the pericardial fluid was bloody, there was concern for a
malignant effusion, however, cytology revealed no malignant
cells.  It was significant for reactive mesothelial cells,
red blood cells, lymphocytes and neutrophils.

The patient also had occasional episodes of ectopy, both
atrial fibrillation and supraventricular tachycardia, which
was thought to be related to the pericardial window and
drain, with resulting irritation.  She was started on
metoprolol 25 mg twice a day for both rhythm abnormalities
and for improvement of congestive heart failure.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient's main complaint on admission was
acute worsening of chronic dyspnea over the last month.  Upon
medical record review, it appears that the patient has had
complaints of dyspnea since [**2161-7-13**] and, during her
previous admission at the beginning of [**Month (only) **], she was
noted to have oxygen saturation of 91% in room air.

The cardiologic etiologies of the dyspnea was extensively
investigated but, as she had no improvement with diuresis,
pericardial window and multiple rule outs for myocardial
infarction, it was felt that there was a pulmonary etiology
as the most likely explanation for her dyspnea.

Given the patient's history of chronic metastatic breast
cancer, lymphatic spread of the cancer was thought to be the
source of her dyspnea.  A thoracentesis was performed on
[**2161-12-30**] and 600 cc of yellow straw colored fluid
was removed.  The fluid was later found to be positive for
malignant cells, consistent with adenocarcinoma.

The patient was ruled for pulmonary embolism just prior to
admission.  Although she was not on oxygen at home, she had a
consistent three to four liter nasal cannula oxygen
requirement throughout the hospitalization.

The patient was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit following pericardial window placement and consideration
for Swan-Ganz catheter was undertaken, however, the patient
and family opted to pursue a less aggressive treatment
course.  The Swan-Ganz was not placed and her volume status,
instead, was estimated per clinical examination and
radiograph evidence that was available.

3.  Renal:  On admission, the patient's creatinine was 1.3
and bumped to as high as 2.1 with diuresis.  With fluid
hydration after the pericardial window was placed, the
creatinine trended down and is currently at 1.6 at the time
of discharge.

4.  Infectious disease:  The patient was treated with a ten
day course of antibiotic