Admission Date:  [**2129-4-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2129-4-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2052-7-14**]       Sex:  M

Service:  BLOOMGARD

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 76 year-old
gentleman with history of coronary artery disease, ischemic
cardiomyopathy, ejection 20 percent, atrial fibrillation,
diabetes mellitus with neuropathy, end stage renal disease on
hemodialysis.  The patient was admitted on [**4-7**] to an
outside for failure to thrive and hypotensive.  The patient
was found to have a large right pleural effusion at the
outside hospital.  He was also hypoxic to the 70s on 6 liters
and thoracentesis revealed [**12-10**] liter of transudative fluid
removed.  Patient's oxygenation reportedly improved after
that.  At the outside hospital the patient's left upper
extremity antecubital AV fistula was noted to be
nonfunctional and a temporary femoral line was placed for
dialysis.  The patient was transferred to the [**Hospital1 346**] for evaluation of fistula, repair
and further medical management.  The patient was transferred
to the Intensive Care Unit on the [**Hospital Ward Name 516**] of [**Hospital1 346**] on [**2129-4-12**].  Upon transfer his
systolic blood pressures were marginal in the 70s.  Otherwise
the patient was stable and afebrile.  The patient was
aggressively dialyzed as well as ultrafiltration by
nephrology and was transferred to the regular internal
medicine floor on [**2129-4-13**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, status post
coronary artery bypass graft times three in [**2099**], [**2112**] and
[**2121**] at [**Hospital 4415**].  Patient underwent
catheterization with no intervention in [**2127-8-10**] at
the [**Hospital1 69**].  In [**2127-8-10**]
transesophageal echocardiogram showed ejection fraction of
about 20 percent, 1+ mitral regurgitation, 2+ tricuspid
regurgitation.  Patient reportedly with a chronic right lung
pleural effusion, chronic atrial fibrillation, status post
multiple failed cardioversions.  Intermittently
anticoagulated but this was limited by a GI bleed which the
patient has had in the past related to Barrett's esophagus.
Also history of stroke with short term memory loss.  History
of falls and syncope.  History of sick sinus syndrome with
pacemaker placed DDI.  Also diabetes mellitus with neuropathy
and nephropathy.  Patient with end stage renal disease on
hemodialysis in [**2126-11-9**] on Monday, Wednesday and
Friday.  Also hypothyroidism.  Also gout.  Also depression.
Also prostatic hyperplasia.  Also status post appendectomy.
Also reported restrictive and obstructive lung disease on
home oxygen.  Also history of Legionnaire's disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient lives in [**Hospital3 **].  His wife
is alive but demented.  [**Hospital **] health care proxy is one of
his daughters.  Remote tobacco history with history of 100
pack years.  Alcohol once to twice per week.

ALLERGIES:  Cardizem "makes me turn into a puffer fish."

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Prevacid 30 once a day, Zoloft 20
once a day, Synthroid .75 once a day, Neurontin 300 once a
day, Renagel 800 t.i.d. on Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
Midodrine 10 pre-hemodialysis Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
Digoxin .125, Tums 1,000 mg t.i.d., amiodarone 200 t.i.d.,
Reglan 10 q.i.d., allopurinol 100 q.d., Zebeta 2.5 mg
Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, Sunday, Coumadin 1 mg q.d. which
had been held at the outside hospital.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission temperature 97.1, blood
pressure 89/50, heart rate 60, saturating 97 percent on 4
liters nasal cannula.  Patient is an elderly gentleman in no
apparent distress.  Lungs with coarse breath sounds
anteriorly.  Heart with S1, 2, II/VI systolic murmur.
Patient's abdomen was benign.  Skin with decubitus ulcer,
also skin breakdown on right and left upper extremities as
well as right lower extremity.  Neuropsychiatric:  Patient
responds appropriately and answers questions appropriately
but with poor recall.  Alert and oriented times three.
Muscle strength 4 out 5 throughout, decreased sensation to
light touch in bilateral lower extremities.

LABORATORY DATA UPON TRANSFER:  White count 6.6, hematocrit
39, platelets 171.  Chemistries within normal limits except
for potassium of 5.2, BUN/creatinine 30/5.5, TSH 15, Digoxin
level 2.2.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  This 76 year-old gentleman with
history of severe coronary artery disease, status post
coronary artery bypass graft, severe congestive heart failure
and cardiomyopathy, pacemaker, diabetes, end stage renal
disease on hemodialysis, transferred from an outside hospital
with a nonfunctioning AV fistula used for dialysis.
Transiently in the Intensive Care Unit for one day for close
monitoring and then transferred to Medicine on [**4-13**].

1.  Congestive heart failure:  Ejection fraction estimated at
20 percent per echocardiogram in [**2126**].  Patient's Digoxin was
held due to his low blood pressures as well as elevated serum
levels.  Patient's serum levels should be monitored and
consider restarting as an outpatient.  Renal followed the
patient closely and performed ultrafiltration daily as well
as dialysis three times per week for fluid removal for the
patient's congestive heart failure.  The patient's oxygen
saturations remained stable throughout his hospital stay.
Clinically the patient initially with jugular venous
distention and lower extremity edema.  However, this improved
with dialysis and ultrafiltration.

2.  Blood pressure:  Patient with marginal systolic blood
pressure in the 70s to 80s on admission.  However, blood
pressure remained in the 90s to 100s throughout the remainder
of his hospital stay.  Patient's cortisol was checked and was
within normal limits.  Patient's blood pressure remained
stable and tolerated the hemodialysis and ultrafiltration
well.  Given the patient's cardiac risk factors we discussed
starting low dose ACE inhibitors as well as beta blocker.
For this patient, however, given his marginal blood pressures
which were very hemodialysis dependent, the patient was not
started on one.  Recommend outpatient consideration of
starting low dose ACE inhibitor on beta blocker.

3.  Pulmonary:  Patient with congestive heart failure as
mentioned above.  Also with restrictive lung disease per
report.  Patient also with stable transudative pleural fluid
per report.  Patient on home oxygen as well.  Patient's
oxygen saturation was stable in the mid 90s throughout his
hospital stay on low amounts of oxygen via nasal cannula.

4.  End stage renal disease:  Patient followed by renal
consult and team and underwent ultrafiltration q.d. as well
as dialysis three times per week which he tolerated well.
Patient's AV fistula was found to be clotted and
interventional radiology attempted to fix this, however, were
unable to.  Therefore, patient had a tunneled right internal
jugular dialysis catheter placed for access.  Patient was
evaluated by transplant surgery regarding possible fistula
repair or placing a new access site for hemodialysis.
Transplant surgery deferred doing this at this time given the
patient's skin breakdown over the sites that they would want
to do that.  Recommend outpatient follow up for possible
access procedure in the future.  Patient tolerated renal low
sodium diet well.  Patient also with Nephrocaps and phosphate
binders.

5.  Dermatology:  Patient with skin breakdown on his back,
right shin and bilateral upper extremities.  These were
changed with dressings and monitored closely.

6.  Atrial fibrillation:  Patient's Coumadin was held due to
interventional radiology procedure.  Given the patient's
history of GI bleed, patient's Coumadin was continued to be
held at discharge.  Defer to outpatient primary care
physician regarding pros and cons of restarting Coumadin with
patient likely to undergo re-access in the future.  Patient's
Digoxin was held as mentioned above.  Patient was continued
on amiodarone for his atrial fibrillation which he tolerated
well.

7.  Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery
bypass graft most recently in [**2121**]:  Patient's cardiac
enzymes negative times three, however, with slightly elevated
troponins likely related to chronic en