Admission Date:  [**2144-8-11**]       Discharge Date:  [**2144-8-26**]


Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 85 [**Hospital **] nursing
home resident with a history of cerebrovascular accident,
coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass
graft who presents with shortness of breath and respiratory
distress.  The patient has been a nursing home resident for
two years, is wheel chair bound times eight months prior to
admission according to his son, had a fever and shortness of
breath earlier the week prior to admission.  The patient was
started on Levofloxacin on [**8-7**] at the nursing home
and Flagyl was also added.  The morning prior to admission
the patient was noted to have increased respiratory distress,
diaphoretic, complaining of shortness of breath.  This was
the morning of [**2144-8-11**].  The patient's O2 sats in
the Emergency Room were found to be in the low 70s on 4
liters nasal cannula.  The patient was felt to be in severe
respiratory distress and was intubated emergently in the
Emergency Room.  According to the physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] patient was
alert prior to intubation.

Subsequently after intubation the patient's blood pressure
decreased and the patient was started on Dopamine and his
heart rate increased into the 150s.  The pressures were
changed to Neosinephrine with significant decrease in blood
pressure without any excessive tachycardia associated with
it. The patient was given Vanco, Ceftriaxone, Flagyl in the
Emergency Room.  An nasogastric lavage was performed in the
Emergency Room, which was significant for coffee ground,
which were OB positive.  The patient was also grossly OB
positive from below.

The patient was transferred to the MICU sedated, intubated
with a left groin catheter.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  History of cerebrovascular
accident in [**2141-8-1**] with associated left sided
weakness.  2.  Dementia.  3.  Coronary artery disease status
post four vessel coronary artery bypass graft in [**2136**].  4.
Diabetes mellitus type 2.  5.  Peptic ulcer disease.  6.
Atypical psychosis.  7.  Prostate cancer.  8.
Hypercholesterolemia.  9.  Mild congestive heart failure with
an EF between 40 and 50% and an echocardiogram in 9/98
showing left ventricular hypertrophy and moderate aortic
stenosis, moderate mitral regurgitation with global decrease
in contractility.  9.  Aortic insufficiency status post AVR.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1.  Cardura 4 mg q.o.d.  2.
Glipizide 5 mg q day.  3.  Lipitor 10 mg q.d.  4.  Norvasc 5
mg q.d.  5.  Prevacid 15 mg q day.  6.  Dulcolax 5 mg b.i.d.
7.  Depakote 500 mg b.i.d.  8.  Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d.  9.
Ultram 50 mg b.i.d.  10.  Risperdal 0.25 mg q.h.s.  11. Senna
two tablets q day.  12.  Vitamin E.  13.  Allopurinol 100 mg
q.d.  14.  Coumadin 0.5 mg q.d.  15.  Levofloxacin.  16.
Flagyl.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has been living at [**Hospital3 7511**] for two years.  The patient denies any tobacco or
alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient's vital signs on arrival
temperature 97.0.  Pulse 104.  Blood pressure 112/52.
Respiratory rate 17.  Generally, this is an elderly, thin
male, intubated, sedated.  HEENT examination normocephalic,
atraumatic.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light
from 2 mm down to 1 with light.  ET tube is in place and
attached.  Nasogastric tube is also in place.  Neck is
without lymphadenopathy.  JVP was difficult to assess, but
was not appreciated.  The patient had course breath sounds
bilaterally throughout.  Heart was regular rate and rhythm
with normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops were
appreciated.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended with
normal abdominal bowel sounds.  Extremities without edema.
The patient had no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Neurological
examination was difficult to perform given that the patient
was sedated.

LABORATORY ON ADMISSION:  A white blood cell count of 9.1,
hematocrit 30.9, platelets 509, sodium 159, potassium 3.7,
chloride 123, bicarb 16, BUN 5, creatinine 1.7, glucose 297,
CPK was 132, ABG obtained in the Emergency Room was 7.23 with
a CO2 of 47 and a PAO2 of 367.  The patient had a chest
x-ray, which showed a right lower lung infiltrate and a
questionable mild congestive heart failure and
electrocardiogram was obtained, which showed the patient to
be in atrial fibrillation at a rate of 123 without any acute
changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  The patient was admitted to the MICU
with the presumptive diagnosis of an aspiration pneumonia
secondary to worsening dementia and nursing home bound.
According to the family prior to this admission the patient
has had a gradual decline in mental status and was not
responding appropriately prior to this recent insult.  The
patient was initially placed on vent settings of assist
control with a tidal volume of 700, respirations of 10 and a
FI2 of 60%.  Arterial blood gases were sent, which stayed
within that range with a resolving respiratory acidosis.  The
patient's antibiotics of Vancomycin, Levofloxacin and
Ceftriaxone were continued for broad spectrum coverage.  A
sputum culture was sent, which was consistent with
oropharyngeal flora.  The patient remained afebrile with a
right lower lobe infiltrate on chest x-ray.  Therefore
Vancomycin was continued for gram positive coverage, Flagyl
was continue for anaerobic coverage, and Ceftriaxone was
changed to Levofloxacin for further gram negative and
atypical coverage.  A legionella and urinary antigen was
checked, which was negative.

Throughout the course of the hospital stay the patient became
afebrile and his white count decreased and was within normal
limits at the time of discharge.  The patient, however, did
not seem to be appropriately improving his right lower lobe
pneumonia with serial chest x-rays obtained.  A bronchoscopy
was performed by the pulmonary fellow, which did not find any
focus of infection or any masses.  Only mucous was noted.
The patient's vent settings were weaned slowly and eventually
the patient tolerated pressure support of 5 with a PEEP of 5
on FIO2 of .4.  The patient was stable on this level for one
week prior to extubation.  The patient was optimize with
suctioning of secretions prior to extubation and was
successfully extubated on [**2144-8-25**].

2.  The patient was felt to be in possible mild congestive
heart failure at the time of admission.  The patient was
diuresed aggressively with Lasix and oxygenation improved as
well as resolution of his congestive heart failure.  The
patient was found to be in atrial fibrillation at the time of
admission.  The patient was placed on Lopressor and titrated
up to Lopressor 50 mg po t.i.d. with good control of his
supraventricular tachycardia.  The patient was ruled out for
a myocardial infarction with a negative troponin and multiple
negative CK.  Cardiac issues have been stable throughout the
hospital stay.

3.  The patient had some decreased urine output during his
hospital stay, which was felt to be secondary to prerenal
azotemia in the setting of possible sepsis verses decreased
cardiac output secondary to heart failure.  At the time of
discharge the patient's renal functions had improved and is
stable.

4.  ID.  The patient initially was stable and cultures were
all negative.  Blood cultures, urine cultures and sputum
cultures were nonspecific and did not show any source of
infection.  As a result antibiotics were initially stopped.
However, after stopping the antibiotics the patient dropped
his blood pressure with a systolic in the 70s and the patient
became febrile with a temperature of 103.7.  The patient was
restarted on Vancomycin, Levofloxacin and Flagyl for presumed
sepsis.  The patient underwent a fourteen day course and at
the completion of the course the patient is currently
afebrile with no increase in white count.  The patient's
blood pressure has also been stable and it was felt that the
patient had a transient sepsis, which was corrected with a
fourteen day course of broad spectrum antibiotics.
Throughout the hospital stay the patient has not grown out
any positive cultures except for the patient did have some
positiv