Admission Date:  [**2142-3-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2142-3-28**]


Service:  [**Doctor Last Name 1181**] MEDICINE

Note:  The patient was admitted to the [**Doctor Last Name **] Medicine
Service after being transferred from the MICU.  For a
detailed course of the patient's stay in the MICU, please
refer to dictation summary from the MICU.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease, congestive
heart failure, with an ejection fraction of 20%,
hypertension, atrial fibrillation, depression, and anxiety.
It should be noted that for atrial fibrillation, the patient
has not been on Coumadin, and there is a question of whether
this is chronic versus paroxysmal.

The patient's ejection fraction is 20% by echocardiogram done
at [**Hospital6 256**] last month.

The patient was admitted initially to the MICU with
respiratory distress and acute renal failure.  The patient
was unable to answer questions, so all history was obtained
by the patient's primary care physician, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 5762**].

The patient lives is an assisted-living facility.  He had
mildly elevated creatinine to 2.5 one week prior to
admission.  This was felt to be secondary to Lasix for
congestive heart failure.  There is little history for past
week, but the patient saw his primary care physician on the
day of admission, and was tachypneic and sent to the
Emergency Room for evaluation.  Oxygen saturation could not
be obtained, but ABG revealed a paO2 of 112 on 100%
nonrebreather.  The patient was also hypotensive with an SBP
in the 80s on presentation, but blood pressure increased to
120 on 1 L normal saline bolus.

Labs obtained that day found the patient to be hyperkalemic
at 6.3.  Creatinine was 5.4.   Electrocardiogram revealed new
ST depressions and T-wave inversions in V1-V3.  The patient
was given Kayexalate and admitted to the MICU for further
care.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease.  Details
are unknown.  2.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection
fraction of 20% by echocardiogram done at [**Hospital6 1760**] last month.  3.
Hypertension.  4.  Atrial fibrillation, not known whether
chronic or paroxysmal.  The patient was not on Coumadin.  5.
The patient has a history of anxiety and depression.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix
40 mg p.o. b.i.d., Zyprexa 2.5 p.o. q.d., Depakote dose
unknown, Dexacen 1 mg p.o. b.i.d., Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives in an assisted-living facility.
Per her primary care physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] is severely deconditioned
and debilitated but refuses other living arrangements.
Daughter is active in his care.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission pulse was
112, blood pressure 106/70 after fluid, oxygen saturation
100% on nonrebreather, respirations 28, temperature 97.8??????.
General:  The patient was alert and in no acute distress.
HEENT:  Within normal limits.  Normocephalic, atraumatic.
Dry mucous membranes.  Oropharynx clear.  Neck:  Supple.  No
lymphadenopathy.  Thyroid normal.  No jugular venous
distention.  Heart:  Irregularly irregular.  No murmurs,
clicks, or gallops.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  No
hepatosplenomegaly palpated.  Extremities:  Lower extremities
with no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Skin:  Without rashes.
Neurological:  Grossly normal.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 14.1, hematocrit 40.1, platelet
count 200; INR 1.2; sodium 149, potassium 5.9, chloride 110,
bicarb 22, BUN 130, creatinine 5.4, glucose 104; depakote
level 36; ABG 7.38 pH; CK 581, MB 30, troponin 0.88.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In the unit the patient was treated with
vigorous intravenous fluids with improvement in renal failure
and blood pressure.  His course was complicated by anemia
which was felt to be secondary to dilutional
.................. acidosis which was .................. and
felt to be secondary to dilutional acidosis.

The patient had atrial fibrillation in the unit, as well as
persistent fever.  Chest x-ray revealed pneumonia felt to be
secondary to aspiration pneumonia.  The patient was started
on Flagyl and Levofloxacin.

The patient was then transferred to the floor.

1.  Pneumonia:  Again this was felt to be secondary to
aspiration pneumonia.  The patient's antibiotics were changed
from Levofloxacin and Flagyl to Levofloxacin and Clindamycin
to provide better coverage for gram-positive aerobes.

On the floor, the patient was initially stable on 2 L oxygen.
He had vigorous chest physical therapy that was delivered to
loosen up secretions, and he became stable on room air, with
oxygen saturations 95-96% on room air.

The patient's sputum culture was consistent with mixed
oropharyngeal flora, and no organism was isolated.

The patient was continued on Clindamycin and Levofloxacin and
was discharged with these medications.

In regards to his hospitalization on the floor, the patient
remained stable in room air.

2.  Cardiovascular:  Pump:  The patient was initially off
afterload reducing agents such as ACE inhibitor; however,
Lisinopril was added at 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. once his creatinine
stabilized to his baseline of around 1.0-1.2.  The patient
tolerated this quite well.

Rate control:  The patient was considered for beta-blocker;
however, he was very sensitive to low-dose beta-blockers with
decrease in blood pressure, and hence these were
discontinued.

The patient throughout his hospitalization remained in atrial
fibrillation which was mostly very well rate controlled in
the 70-80s.

Beta-blockers and other nodal agents were not continued given
that the patient is very sensitive and would have low blood
pressures.  He otherwise maintained good blood pressure
without problem.

Ischemia:  There was no evidence of active ischemia.  The
patient did have elevated CK, CKMB, and troponins; however,
these were felt to be secondary to demand ischemia in the
setting of renal insufficiency.

The patient did not actively complain of chest pain or have
any other symptoms that would indicate active ischemia.
Further management was deferred.

Atrial fibrillation:  The patient has a history of atrial
fibrillation.  This is unclear of whether this is chronic
versus paroxysmal.  The patient was not on Coumadin on
admission, and Coumadin was not continued in-house.

The patient was mostly very well rate controlled with rate in
the 70s to 80s and had no evidence of acute embolic events
throughout his hospitalization.

Hypotension:  Again this improved throughout his
hospitalization.  The patient had no symptomatic hypotensive
episodes.  His blood pressures were very well controlled on
ACE inhibitor at low dose.

3.  Acute renal failure:  By the time the patient was on the
floor, his renal failure had returned to baseline at
approximately 1.0-1.2 for his creatinine.

4.  Congestive heart failure:  The patient has a history of
congestive heart failure.  His diuretics were stopped
entirely throughout his hospitalization.  In fact, the
patient was aggressively fluid resuscitated on admission to
the MICU.

The patient was not maintained on diuretics at all, and his
only medications included Lisinopril 2.5 mg 1 p.o. q.d. for
afterload reduction.

The patient will not be discharged with a diuretic given that
he is currently stable on room air and is not in
decompensated heart failure, has no evidence of lower
extremity edema.  His Lasix may need to be readded to his
regimen as an outpatient once he is discharged from the
hospital, as his volume status changes.  His volume status
should be followed quite aggressively, and he should be
maintained on a low-sodium, puree, and thick liquid diet.
Additionally, his intake of fluids should not exceed 1500 cc
per day.  The patient's urine output should also be followed.

5.  FEN:  Again acidosis was non-gap and felt to be secondary
to expansion.  This resolved throughout his hospitalization.
The patient's hypernatremia again was felt secondary to fluid
resuscitation and free-water deficit.  He was repleted with
D5 norma