Admission Date:  [**2125-10-10**]       Discharge Date:  [**2125-10-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2072-11-5**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Hospital1 **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Mental status change, shortness of breath

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 53-year-old
female with a history of bipolar disorder, diabetes mellitus,
who was referred from [**State 350**] Mental Health for
accidentally taking two 900 mg tablets of lithium the night
before presentation.  The patient reported one day history of
vomiting and shortness of breath as well as body aches.  The
patient was unable to give an elaborate history beyond that
of her concern that she had had too much lithium.  The
patient had revealed that she had taken too much lithium in
the past, and felt much the same as she did when she
presented.  The patient had no history of chest pain, fever,
cough, but did note shortness of breath especially with
climbing stairs.

In the Emergency Department, a Foley catheter was placed,
drawing 50 cc of urine.  An arterial blood gas was performed,
revealing a pH of 7.31, with a PCO2 of 60 and a PAO2 of 68.
Oxygen saturations were in the mid-80s.  Chest x-ray showed
bilateral basilar opacities with pulmonary vascular
congestion.  The Medical Intensive Care Unit was called for
assessment for invasive monitoring of the patient and to
monitor waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**]  mental status in the setting of
elevated lithium level.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Bipolar disorder
2.  Morbid obesity
3.  Hypothyroidism
4.  Sleep apnea
5.  Diabetes mellitus

MEDICATIONS:   Lithium 600 mg every morning and 900 mg every
evening, Trazodone 100 mg by mouth daily at bedtime,
Synthroid, Glucophage, Glucotrol, lasix, Accupril and
hydrochlorothiazide.

ALLERGIES:   Stelazine, Norpramin

SOCIAL HISTORY:   The patient is divorced, lives with her
fiance.  The patient admits to a brief smoking history as a
teenager.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   Temperature 99, heart rate 70s to
80s, blood pressure 134/86, oxygen saturation 80% supine and
92% sitting up.  On general examination, the patient was an
alert, obese female, in mild distress.  The patient was
oriented to place, date and situation.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat examination revealed pupils equal, round and
reactive to light, extraocular movements intact.  Thorax
revealed bibasilar rales to the mid-lung fields.  Cardiac
examination revealed regular rate and rhythm, normal S1, S2,
and a II/VI systolic murmur.  Abdominal examination revealed
an abdomen that was soft, obese, nontender, nondistended,
with normal bowel sounds.  Extremity examination revealed 1+
peripheral edema.  Neurological examination revealed a
patient that was alert, somewhat inattentive.  The patient
was tremulous.  There were scattered myoclonic jerks.  The
patient had 3+ reflexes throughout, with one to two beats of
clonus at the ankles.

LABORATORY DATA:   The patient had a sodium of 134, potassium
4.5, chloride 99, bicarbonate 30, BUN 52, creatinine 3.4 with
a baseline of 0.9, and glucose of 77.  The patient had a
lithium level of 2.6.  The patient had a white blood cell
count of 14.9 with a hematocrit of 34.7 and platelets of 268.
Serum toxicology screen was negative for aspirin, ETOH,
acetaminophen, benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and tricyclic
antidepressants.  Urinalysis revealed positive nitrites, 3+
protein, moderate blood, [**5-13**] red blood cells, and [**10-23**]
white blood cells.  An initial CK was 20.

Chest x-ray:  Cardiomegaly with congestive heart failure.
Electrocardiogram:  Normal sinus rhythm, normal axis,
nonspecific ST/T wave changes in V1 and AVF.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient is a 53-year-old female with a
history of bipolar disorder, diabetes mellitus, who presented
with a one day history of vomiting and shortness of breath as
well as a history of ingestion of 1800 mg of lithium the
evening before presentation.  The patient was admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit to monitor her waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**]
mental status as well as her ability to maintain her airway.

1.  Pulmonary:  The patient presented with acute on chronic
respiratory acidosis.  It was suspected that the acute
component was likely related to CNS depression with lithium
overdose.  The chronic component appeared to be secondary to
her obesity and obstructive sleep apnea.  The patient was
admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for supplemental
oxygen, monitoring of her respiratory status, and possible
need for intubation.  The patient was also suspected to be in
congestive heart failure, and was diuresed as well.  The
patient did require a brief intubation secondary to a neck
hematoma that developed after central line attempt.  This was
done prophylactically for airway protection.  The patient was
quickly extubated as the hematoma resolved.  The patient was
also subsequently found to have a pneumonia and was
successfully treated with a ten day course of levofloxacin
and vancomycin.  The patient showed improvement in her oxygen
saturation over the course of the admission, and was
transferred from the Intensive Care Unit to the regular
Medicine floor on [**2125-10-24**].  She routinely had an
oxygen saturation of 93 to 95% on room air.

2.  Cardiovascular:  The patient was ruled out for myocardial
infarction by serial CKs.

3.  Neurologic:  Patient with changes in mental status,
likely secondary to lithium overdose.  Her lithium level was
elevated to 2.6.  She was obtunded, tremulous, with mild
ataxia.  She had barbiturates present in her urine.
Toxicology was consulted and recommended holding all of the
patient's psychotropic medications as well as recommending
dialysis for removal of lithium.  The patient was started on
hemodialysis secondary to increased lethargy, worsening
acid/base status, and the presence of toxic levels of
lithium.  She tolerated this well.  The patient's lithium
level steadily trended downwards to the point of being
undetectable.  The patient's mental status gradually returned
to her baseline.  Psychiatry had been consulted and
recommended that there was no acute indication for
pharmacotherapy of her bipolar disorder.  They recommended
Haldol and Ativan for agitation.  The patient had infrequent
episodes of agitation in the evening, requiring Haldol.

4.  Renal:  The patient presented with oliguric acute renal
failure after lithium overdose.  This was thought to be
secondary to acute tubular necrosis related to hypovolemia as
well as lithium toxicity.  The patient required hemodialysis
both to remove toxic levels of lithium as well as for
worsening acid/base status.  A first attempt at a
hemodialysis line placement resulted in a right neck
hematoma.  A second line placement attempt led to a femoral
artery puncture which required Vascular Surgery repair.  The
patient became hemodynamically unstable, requiring a short
interval on pressors secondary to this complication.  The
patient returned quickly to hemodynamic stability.  The
patient's creatinine was elevated on presentation and
required ongoing hemodialysis.  However, the patient
gradually showed improvement in her creatinine, which came
down to 1.3.  The patient also began to have excellent urine
output, up to 1500 cc/day.  At that point, the Renal service
did not feel that the patient needed ongoing hemodialysis,
nor was it felt that she needed to continue to receive
erythropoietin.

5.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient had a nasogastric tube
placed upon admission to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.
She received tube feeds for the initial Intensive Care Unit
stay.  However, the patient began to have evidence of
increasing abdominal tenderness with an elevated lipase,
suggesting pancreatitis.  The patient had an abdominal CT
which was negative for pancreatic pseudocyst or for
pancreatic inflammation.  However, the patient continued to
have an increasing lipase and was therefore placed on bowel
rest with nasogastric tube placement.  The patient's white
blood cell count was likewise elevated.  However, the
patient's lipase gradually decreased while on bowel rest, as
did her white blood cell count.  Her abdominal tenderness
resolved, and she was grad