Admission Date:  [**2170-10-5**]     Discharge Date:  [**2170-10-31**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Name14 (STitle) 18015**] is a 63 year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease status post
coronary artery bypass graft in [**2166**], aortic insufficiency
status post aortic valve repair in [**2166**], diastolic congestive
hypertension, diabetes mellitus, end stage liver disease,
cirrhosis secondary to hepatitis B and chronic alcoholism who
presents with increased shortness of breath for two weeks.
There is also a positive thirteen pound weight gain in the
past two weeks.  He was told to increase Lasix from 42 mg po
q day one week ago.  The patient still with increased weight
and shortness of breath and positive orthopnea.  There is
exertion.  There is bilateral arm tingling for two weeks.
There is a history of positive bloody stool possibly
secondary to a history of internal hemorrhoids.  Positive
chronic cough, but this is unchanged.  He has no diarrhea.
No fevers or chills or dysuria.  Positive increased lethargy
over the last ten months.  The patient does use home oxygen.
He uses it at night,  but for the last two weeks he has been
using it around the clock.

In the Emergency Department vital signs were 96.4
temperature.  Heart rate 98.  Blood pressure 120/70.
Respiratory rate 20.  Oxygen saturation was 84% on room air
improved to 99% on 2 liters.  The patient was given 80 mg of
Lasix intravenous with 600 cc of urine output and improved
shortness of breath subsequently to this.  On
electrocardiogram new onset atrial fibrillation in the 90s.
The patient was in normal sinus rhythm as recently as [**2170-9-20**] while on the Holter monitor.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient was considered for
placement on the transplant list secondary to cirrhosis,
secondary to hepatitis B and liver disease secondary to
chronic alcohol use.  History of hepatic encephalopathy.
Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass
graft in [**2166**], aortic insufficiency, status post AVR repair
in [**2166**], diastolic congestive heart failure, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, diabetes
mellitus, home O2 admitted [**2170-7-19**] with pneumonia and
cellulitis, positive reversible defect in the inferior at
apex.  Stress test in [**2170-8-12**] Holter monitor, no
electrocardiogram changes and mild apical hypokinesis, medium
to high grade AEA.  Episodes of sustained supraventricular
tachycardia initiated by APB.  Echocardiogram in [**2170-8-12**]
showed more or less moderate left LA plus [**Last Name (un) **] and mild
symmetrical left ventricular hypertrophy.  Normal LVS
function with ejection fraction over 60%.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lasix 80 mg po q.d., potassium
chloride 20 milliequivalents po q.d., Pepcid mg po b.i.d.,
Atenolol 12.5 mg po q.d., Lactulose 30 cc b.i.d., aspirin 81
mg po q day, vitamin E, multiple vitamin, NPH 20 units subQ
q.a.m., 10 Units subQ q.p.m., Os-Cal 500 mg po q.i.d., Maalox
t.i.d., Neomycin 250 mg po q.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.  Intolerant to sleep medications.
Motrin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Three cigarettes per day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 96.5.  Pulse
85.  Respiratory rate 22.  Blood pressure 115/62.  O2
saturation 93 to 97% on 4 liters.  The patient is mouth
breathing, but in no acute distress.  Oriented to person and
place only.  Sclera anicteric.  Pupils are equal, round and
reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Mental
status was at baseline per family.  Distended EJ.
Jugulovenous distention at 10 cm.  Cardiovascular heart rate
is regularly irregular.  2 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur
at the apex.  Lungs, positive rales [**3-17**] of the way up.
Decreased breath sounds on left base.  Abdomen distended,
nontender, positive normal bowel sounds.  Extremities
positive clubbing, positive fluff hand contracture.  2+
pitting edema to knees bilaterally.  Positive chronic
venostasis skin changes with erythema.  Neurological
examination is mild to moderate asterixics.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  Chest x-ray positive perivascular
upper hilar haziness consistent with congestive heart
failure.  Small bilateral pleural effusion, worsened
congestive heart failure compared to prior study.  Patchy
opacity in left lung zone.  White blood cell count 4.7,
hematocrit 31, platelets 77 with a baseline platelet of 70
and 90.  PT 16.4, PTT 36.5, with an INR of 1.8.  Sodium 133,
potassium 4.4., chloride 97, bicarbonate 27, BUN 40,
creatinine 1.1, glucose 287, ALT 36, AST 63, CK 67, alkaline
phosphatase 127, T bili 1.3, troponin I less then .3.
Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with a rate of
92, normal axis, slightly prolonged QRS to 104, poor R wave
progression.  Left ventricular hypertrophy.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In essence this is a 63 year-old male with
a history of coronary artery disease status post coronary
artery bypass graft, aortic insufficiency, status post AVR,
diastolic congestive heart failure, hypertension, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, cirrhosis,
now here with new onset of atrial fibrillation and shortness
of breath for two weeks.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiac:  The patient was ruled out for
a myocardial infarction.  New onset of atrial fibrillation
noted.  The patient was continued on aspirin and beta
blocker.  The patient had supraventricular tachycardia.  The
patient further in his course while in the Intensive Care
Unit developed hypertension to.  He had to be maintained on
pressors, which included Levophed and then neo-synephrine.
There were episodes during the hospitalization when the
patient had to be on Amiodarone and Atenolol secondary to his
tachycardiac.  Did not anticoagulate the patient due to his
atrial fibrillation secondary to his auto anticoagulation
secondary to his liver disease.  Transesophageal
echocardiogram was unremarkable.  Periodically the patient
had to be given Lasix secondary to his congestive heart
failure.  However, this had to be balance so that the patient
would get hypotensive and hs required pressures by the end of
his hospital admission.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient originally presented in
congestive heart failure iwth a fluid overload.  The patient
was diuresed.  However, the patient did have to be intubated
secondary to inadequate oxygenation.  The patient was
intubated and admitted to the medical Intensive Care Unit on
[**2170-10-12**].  The patient was in respiratory acidosis in
the setting of hypotension, which was poor prognostic sign.
The question of congestive heart failure versus development
of new pneumonia.  Pneumonia was treated.  The patient was
also given Albumin to increase intravascular and glottic
pressure with the hope that this would improve hypotension
and improve perfusion and improve further acidosis.  The
patient's presumed pneumonia was treated with Levaquin.
Serial chest x-rays were followed.  The patient eventually
grew out Pseudomonas from his sputum.  Infectious disease
team was following the patient and was giving
recommendations.  After the Pseudomonas was discovered the
patient was placed on Vancomycin and Ceftazidime.  Despite
these efforts the patient's ventilation requirements
continued to increase likely secondary to his worsening of
his infection and now possible adult respiratory distress
syndrome (chest x-ray could possibly have interpreted as
consistent with adult respiratory distress syndrome).

3.  Neurological:  The patient has continued to deteriorate
in terms of his mental status.  The patient does have a
history of hepatic encephalopathy and originally his changes
in his mental status were attributed to that. Despite
aggressive treatment with Lactulose the patient was not
improveing.  However, the CT scan of the head was performed
and was unremarkable.  The patient had extensive neurological
evaluations during his hospital stay.  By the end of the
hospital stay the patient was essentially unresponsive to
verbal stimuli or pain.  Additionally, by the end of the
hospital stay the patient's pupils became nonreactive to
light.  Per neurological examination the patient had an
extremely poor prog