Admission Date:  [**2172-3-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2172-3-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2111-8-3**]       Sex:  F

Service:  1

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 60 year old
female with no known coronary artery disease who presented to
[**Hospital6 5016**] around noontime on [**2172-3-15**],
with respiratory distress.  The family said that the patient
had cold-like symptoms lasting about three days with cough,
fatigue, subjective fevers.  The patient's progressive
dyspnea improved with upright positioning.  On the night
prior to admission to [**Hospital6 5016**], the patient was
experiencing increased cough and shortness of breath.  The
patient was brought by ambulance to the Emergency Room at
[**Hospital6 5016**], where her oxygen saturation was
reportedly around 60% initially with arterial blood gas
showing oxygen saturation around 30%.  Apparently on
examination, the patient had markedly decreased breath sounds
on her left side, with chest x-ray showing a 25%
pneumothorax.

The patient was intubated for respiratory distress and a
chest tube was placed anteriorly.  The patient's initial EKG
showed globally diffuse ST segment depressions of 2 to 3 mm
in leads V2 through V6, II, III and AVF.  After intubation
and after chest tube placement, EKG showed near complete
resolution of EKG changes.  At midnight, the patient's EKG
showed no ST segment depressions in V1 through V6, slight T
wave flattening in the inferior leads.  The patient's initial
CK was 600 range with an MB index of 5.7, negative troponin.
The patient had required Dopamine at low doses to maintain
her systolic blood pressures greater than 90.

On transfer to [**Hospital1 69**], the
patient remained intubated and not sedated.  The patient
denied pain or shortness of breath on transfer.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Presumed emphysema.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  NyQuil p.r.n.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's grandfather died a sudden
death at age 32.  The patient admits to an extensive history
of heart disease in the family.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has smoked 1.5 pack per day
tobacco for 40 years.  The patient admits to rare alcohol
consumption.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, temperature 98.6 F.;
blood pressure 89/45; pulse 98; respirations 16; oxygen
saturation 100%.  In general, the patient is awake,
intubated, very alert.  Head and Neck examination:  Pupils
equally round and reactive to light; extraocular muscles are
intact.  Sclerae anicteric.  Endotracheal tube in place.  NG
tube in place.  No jugular venous distention.  Chest and
Lungs:  Distant, scant wheezes, equal breath sounds
bilaterally.  No rales.  Cardiovascular:  Distant heart
sounds.  Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and S2.  No S3
or S4.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen:  Good bowel
sounds in all four quadrants.  Soft, nontender, nondistended.
Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Difficult to
palpate dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally.  Neurologic
examination:  Awake, alert, communicating appropriately,
moving all four extremities; nonfocal.

LABORATORY:   On admission, white blood cell count 13 with
differential yielding 88% neutrophils, 8% lymphocytes, 3%
monocytes, 0.2% eosinophils.  Hematocrit 37.1, platelets 200,
PTT 26.9, INR 1.2.  Sodium 143, potassium 3.5, chloride 105,
bicarbonate 26, BUN 12, creatinine 0.6, glucose 85.  CK
pending.

Chest x-ray showing trace left apical pneumothorax, bullous
emphysematous changes diffusely.

EKG #1 on [**3-15**] at 02:00 p.m. showing sinus tachycardia
at 112 beats per minute, normal axis, normal intervals, [**Street Address(2) 11741**] depressions in V2 through V6, [**Street Address(2) 1766**] depressions in II,
III, AVF.

EKG #2 taken on [**3-15**] at 03:00 p.m., showing sinus
tachycardia at 137 beats per minute, 1 to [**Street Address(2) 1766**] depressions
in V1 through V6, [**Street Address(2) 4793**] depression in II, III, AVF.

EKG #3 taken on [**3-16**] at 12:30 a.m., showing normal
sinus rhythm at 99 beats per minute, normal axis, normal
intervals, resolution of ST and T wave changes.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The impression was that
this is a 68 year old female with no prior known coronary
artery disease with likely chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease and emphysema secondary to extensive tobacco use,
transferred here with left pneumothorax and EKG changes with
global T wave inversions and increased cardiac enzymes, ruled
in for myocardial infarction.

1.  Cardiovascular:  A) Ischemia.  Initially, it was not
clear if this patient's EKG changes and elevated cardiac
enzymes were consistent with thrombotic coronary disease or
more related to severe hypoxia suffered during the patient's
pneumothorax.  The patient did not present with anginal type
symptoms or any history of such symptoms.  The patient was
treated as if this was true intra-coronary disease.  The
patient was placed on a heparin drip and was started on
aspirin.  Beta blocker and ACE inhibitor were not started
secondary to hypotension and the prospect of starting a beta
blocker did not exist, taking into consideration this
patient's severe presumed obstructive lung disease.  The
patient's cardiac enzymes were cycled, and CKs trended down
into the 200s with a negative MB index and negative troponin
throughout.  Serial electrocardiograms were followed, showing
complete resolution of initial EKG changes on presentation to
[**Hospital6 5016**].

An echocardiogram was done one day after admission, showing
normal overall left ventricular systolic function with an
ejection fraction of greater than 55%,



                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1008**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1009**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2692**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2172-3-18**]  15:17
T:  [**2172-3-18**]  15:26
JOB#:  [**Job Number 38996**]
