Admission Date:  [**2115-8-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2115-8-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2048-9-18**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Thoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
with a history of acute myeloplastic leukemia diagnosed in
[**2114-10-1**] who was treated with Ara-C but complicated by
infection and myelosuppression.

The patient was readmitted on [**8-9**] for an acute
myeloplastic leukemia relapse.  The patient has been
complaining of right pleuritic chest pain, cough, and fevers.
A chest CAT scan was done on [**8-10**] which revealed a right
upper lobe consolidation.  A biopsy of this consolidation
showed that it was a mucoid mycosis, and consequently
Thoracic Surgery was consulted on [**8-14**] to evaluate the
need to resect the right upper lobe.

The patient was started on AmBisome and Levaquin while he was
admitted on the Oncology Service.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (His past medical history was
significant for)
1.  Questionable aspergillus pneumonia in [**2115-11-1**]
which was treated with four weeks of AmBisome.
2.  He also has a history of hypertension.
3.  Recurrent acute myelogenous leukemia.
4.  Gout.
5.  Prostate cancer 10 years ago.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a social history significant
for cigarette smoking; although he quit.  He also has a
history of asbestos exposure four years ago and possible
tuberculosis exposure since he was working in a tuberculosis
institute.

FAMILY HISTORY:   His family history is significant for
father and brother both having prostate cancer.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to PENICILLIN, DEMEROL,
ASPIRIN.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  He was admitted on Ambien,
allopurinol, hydroxyurea, colchicine, Paxil, multivitamin,
Tylenol, Ativan.  The patient was placed on Levaquin and
AmBisome by the Oncology Service on admission.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   On examination, the
patient's temperature was 100.6, pulse was 112, respirations
were 20, blood pressure was 140/80, 98% on 35% shovel mask.
He saturated 88% on room air.  His head, eyes, ears, nose,
and throat examination was significant for lymphadenopathy in
the cervical and submandibular region.  His sclerae were
anicteric.  No evidence of jugular venous distention or
carotid bruits.  His pupils were equally round and reactive.
Chest examination revealed the patient was noted to right
inspiratory and expiratory wheezes with rales.  His left
chest was clear to auscultation.  He was also noted to have
palpable axillary lymph nodes including one that was
significantly enlarged in the left axilla.  His heart was
regular rate and rhythm.  First heart sound and second heart
sound were present.  No murmurs or gallops were appreciated.
The abdomen was soft and nontender, though moderately
protuberant.  Extremities were warm with palpable distal
pulses.  No evidence of edema.  Neurologically, he was alert
and oriented, and no focal neurologic deficits were noted.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  His white blood
cell count was 36.1, with a hematocrit of 25.7, and platelets
were 44.  His electrolytes revealed sodium was 141, potassium
was 4.4, chloride was 106, bicarbonate was 27, blood urea
nitrogen was 20, creatinine was 1, and blood glucose was 110.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   He had a chest CT which revealed a right
upper lobe opacity measuring 6.7 cm X 8.7 cm; which was
increased from his previous CT scan of 4.1 cm X 4.5 cm.
There was extensive mediastinal and hilar lymphadenopathy.

A CAT scan of his abdomen also showed right basilar nodules
in the right base of his lung measuring approximately 8 mm.
There was also lymphadenopathy at the porta hepatis and the
retroperitoneum.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   He has been receiving chemotherapy during
his admission to the Oncology Service.  A biopsy of his left
axilla lymph node showed that there was no evidence of
disseminated fungal infection.

Therefore, discussion with the patient as well as his family
was started to determine whether or not they would wish to
have this consolidation in his right upper lobe removed.  A
discussion was also carried in conjunction with the Oncology
Service.  After much discussion, the decision was made to go
ahead with this thoracotomy and resection of his right upper
lobe.

The patient was then consented for this procedure and was
taken to the operating room on [**2115-8-16**].
Intraoperatively, an initial attempt to remove the patient's
right upper lobe appeared to be difficult, and the patient
had a significant amount of blood loss intraoperatively.  He
lost approximately 3 liters of blood, requiring a 5-liter
transfusion.  The patient also received multiple units of
platelets.  Moreover, it was determined that it was necessary
intraoperatively to perform a complete right pneumonectomy.

Postoperatively, the patient was transferred to the Recovery
Unit in stable condition, though remained intubated.

The next morning the patient was transferred to the Cardiac
Surgery Recovery Unit where it became extremely difficult to
ventilate the patient.  Initially, the patient's ventilator
was placed on pressure control ventilation, trying to control
his airway pressures so that the stump of the side where the
pneumonectomy was performed would not be blown out.

However, despite a pressure of 30 with a positive
end-expiratory pressure of 5, leaving a plateau pressure of
around 35, it was very difficult to ventilate the patient.
The patient's PCO2 increased precipitously to the 90s.  At
this point, the patient was then switched over to assist
control which temporarily improved his ventilation.  However,
the patient's creatinine increased from 1 to 1.9.  Moreover,
his blood pressure began to drop, requiring the addition of
Neo-Synephrine to maintain an adequate mean arterial
pressure.

However, the patient's respiratory status continued to
deteriorate despite the fact that we ventilated him.  His
oxygenation then became a problem requiring high FIO2 of up
100%.   We attempted to wean this down slightly to 80%;
however, the patient did not tolerate this and required going
back to 100%.  Next, his blood pressure became an issue again
requiring the addition of a second [**Doctor Last Name 360**]; we added Levophed
to maintain his blood pressure.  Fluid boluses did not appear
to help his blood pressure or his perfusion.  The patient
became progressively acidotic.  Moreover, his renal function
also deteriorated with his creatinine increasing to 3.7 the
next morning, which quickly increased to over 5 the same
afternoon.

In the morning of [**8-19**], the patient's systolic blood
pressure dropped to the 70s despite very high doses of
Neo-Synephrine and Levophed.  Moreover, his kidney stopped
making urine, and his oxygenation became a main issue since
the patient was unable to get rid of any of the fluids that
he had been receiving.  His oxygen saturation dropped into
the 80s despite being on 100% FIO2.

At this point, the family was then contact[**Name (NI) **] as well as the
attending to explain that the patient was not doing well and
may not survive.  At this point, the family decided to make
the patient do not resuscitate; however, they did not
withdraw care.

Nevertheless; at 7:55 a.m. on [**2115-8-19**], the patient's
blood pressure continued to drop, followed by his heart rate,
and finally he became asystolic and expired at exactly
7:55 a.m. on [**2115-8-19**].

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  The patient expired.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient expired.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Disseminated acute myelogenous leukemia.
2.  Status post right pneumonectomy.
3.  Multiple organ failure.




                          [**Known firstname 177**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 178**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 179**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 20292**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2115-8-19**]  08:31
T:  [**2115-8-24**]  21:24
JOB#:  [**Job Number 21208**]
