Admission Date:  [**2185-1-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2185-2-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2163-1-27**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Trauma Surgery

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Status post motor vehicle collision.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 23-year-old
male, unrestrained driver, high-speed motor vehicle
collision, with significant front end damage to the
automobile and shattered windshield.

The patient presented hemodynamically stable with [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 2611**]
Coma Scale of 14.  The patient's left lower extremity was
splinted by Emergency Medical Service.  The patient was
complaining of lower extremity pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  None.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  None.

ALLERGIES:  He has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is an occasional ethanol
drinker.  He denies tobacco.  Denies recreational drugs.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature was 99.4,
his blood pressure was 108/palp, his heart rate was 86, his
respiratory rate was 20, and his oxygen saturation was 100%.
On examination, his pupils were equal and reactive to light.
The extraocular muscles were intact.  The tympanic membranes
were clear.  The oropharynx was clear.  The patient had a
left-sided facial laceration.  Chest was regular in rate and
rhythm.  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  The abdomen was
soft, nontender, and nondistended.  The pelvis was stable.
No costovertebral angle tenderness bilaterally.  Cervical
spine and thoracolumbosacral had no deformities, stepoff, or
tenderness.  Guaiac-negative with good rectal tone.  The
patient had bruises, ecchymosis, and abrasions of the right
shoulder and ecchymosis and tenderness at the middle humerus,
and the right lower extremity revealed full range of motion
with no deformities.  The left lower extremity was positive
for a deformity of the middle shaft of the femur.  The
patient had 2+ radial pulses bilaterally, 2+ femoral pulses
bilaterally, 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally, and 2+
posterior tibialis pulses bilaterally.  The patient had an
ankle-brachial index of 1.2 on the right and 0.98 on the
left.  The patient had a Foley catheter inserted at the
scene.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The patient had a head computed
tomography on admission and on the 17th which were both
negative.

He also had a computed tomography of the cervical spine which
was negative and a computed tomography of the chest which was
normal.

The patient's abdominal computerized axial tomography showed
a tiny focus, decreased attenuation of the posterior spleen,
question of a very small laceration but no hematoma or
extravasation was seen.

Films of the right humerus and left shoulder were negative.

Plain films of the left femur showed a fracture at the middle
shaft.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Complete blood
count, chemistries, and coagulations were all within normal
limits.  Urine and serum toxicology screens were negative.
His lactate was 1.7.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to
the operating room by Orthopaedics on [**2-1**] and is
status post intramedullary nail of the left femur on [**2185-2-1**].

Upon admission to the Intensive Care Unit, the patient
developed respiratory distress with oxygen saturations in the
77th percentile.  An arterial blood gas was performed and
showed a very low PAO2.  The patient was subsequently
intubated and sedated on propofol for hypertension and
increased heart rates.  Prior to this time, the patient was
brought to the operating room by Orthopaedics, and the left
femur was placed in traction.  The patient had a right chest
tube placed on [**2185-1-29**] and a computed tomography
angiogram was obtained.  This showed multiple peripheral
pulmonary emboli bilaterally, but no large central pulmonary
embolus.  It also showed multifocal areas of consolidation,
which were new from prior examination.  The patient also had
the presence of secretions in the airway which suggested
multifocal pneumonia as well.  As mentioned, bilateral chest
tubes was placed for the respiratory distress a right
pneumothorax.

During the Intensive Care Unit course, the patient was
treated with antibiotics for pneumonia (as per culture data).
The patient also developed transient thrombocytopenia.  For
this, Pepcid was discontinued, Protonix was started, and a
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia antibody was sent which was
negative.  The patient was also transfused as needed for low
hematocrits.

The patient had a repeat head computed tomography on [**2-1**] which showed no change, and no intracranial bleed.  The
patient's heparin drip was started postoperatively secondary
to the pulmonary emboli.

Throughout the Intensive Care Unit course, the patient was
also diuresed as needed.  A feeding tube was placed, and tube
feeds were started and were tolerated well.  The patient also
had periodic temperature spikes which were cultured and
adequately treated.

On [**2185-2-8**] the patient's bilateral chest tubes were
discontinued, and the patient tolerated this procedure well.
A chest x-ray was obtained and showed no pneumothorax.   The
patient was also started on Coumadin during the Intensive
Care Unit stay, and the heparin drip was continued until a
therapeutic INR was obtained.

On [**2185-2-11**] the patient was extubated and tolerated
this well with an arterial blood gas within normal limits.
The Speech and Swallow therapists were consulted throughout
the hospital stay, performing multiple swallow studies.  As
the patient became more alert, the patient improved with the
swallowing studies and was able to tolerate good oral intake
by discharge.

After extubation, it was noted that the patient had a
decreased level of alertness.  The Neurology Service was
consulted to comment whether this was pharmacological,
metabolic, infectious, or an intracranial hemorrhage.  They
recommended a repeat head contrast to rule out bleed given
the patient was being anticoagulated at this time.
Neurology recommended obtaining a magnetic resonance imaging
of the brain to evaluate for axonal injury.  The magnetic
resonance imaging showed a nonspecific increased T2 signals
in the white matter of the left frontal lobe and linear areas
of restricted diffusion at the bilateral parietal white
matter which could represent areas of diffuse axonal injury
consistent with a motor vehicle collision.  A magnetic
resonance imaging of the spine also showed right-sided disc
herniation at L5-S1 with no evidence of fracture in the
lumbar region.  Neurosurgery was consulted regarding these
findings and recommended an elective repair in the future and
to follow up as an outpatient.

The patient was transferred to the floor on [**2185-2-16**] in
a stable condition.  The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course on the
floor was remarkable for an increased alertness and
orientation.  Prior to discharge, the patient was alert and
oriented times three.  He was able to follow commands and
without any neurologic deficits.  The hospital course on the
floor was unremarkable.

The patient passed a swallowing study and video swallow and
was able to tolerate a ground diet with thin liquids by
discharge.  The patient's INR was therapeutic upon discharge,
and the heparin drip was discontinued.  The patient was
afebrile and finished a course of antibiotics with a
decreased white count and no signs of infection.  As the
patient increased oral intake, tube feeds were weaned, and
the feeding tube was discontinued.

Physical Therapy worked with the patient and deemed him safe
to receive physical therapy as an outpatient and recommended
disposition to be home.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  The patient's disposition was to
home.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
 1.  Status post motor vehicle collision.
 2.  Left femur fracture.
 3.  Multiple pulmonary emboli.
 4.  Diffuse axonal injury.
 5.  Right pneumothorax.
 6.  Bilateral diffuse pulmonary opacities.
 7.  Acute respiratory distress.
 8.  Adult respiratory distress syndrome.
 9.  L5-S1 disc bulge.
10.  Pneumonia.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOWUP:
1.  The patient was set up with a pr