Admission Date:  [**2131-2-15**]     Discharge Date:  [**2131-2-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2088-1-5**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 43-year-old
gentleman with no significant past medical history who
presented to an outside hospital with a one to two day
history of substernal chest pain that radiated to the upper
back.  He also complained of increasing shortness of breath
and diaphoresis.  At the outside hospital, an EKG showed
anterolateral wall ST elevations and the patient was started
on Retivase with no significant changes in his EKG.  He was
also given Lopressor, aspirin, and started on a heparin drip
and nitroglycerin drip.  At that time, a stat echocardiogram
showed anterior wall hypokinesis and the patient was
emergently transferred to [**Hospital3 **] for emergent PCI.

In the Cath Laboratory there was shown to be an LAD lesion
that was totally occluded in the mid to distal segment with
TIMI-0 flow.  An attempted PCI of the total occlusion in the
mid LAD was unsuccessful.  His hemodynamics showed a right
atrial pressure of 28, right ventricle of 118/21, pulmonary
artery 116/33, wedge of 31, cardiac index of 1.3, cardiac
output of 2.6, SVR 1,692, PVR 92.  An intra-aortic balloon
pump was placed which increased his cardiac index to 2.2.
The patient was intubated for airway protection.  He was then
transferred to the CCU for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Noncontributory

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:  None.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is a two pack per day smoker for over 25
years.  He admits to socially drinking approximately 4-5
drinks per week.  He is a construction worker.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His father is with known coronary artery
disease.

LABORATORY DATA UPON ADMISSION:  White count of 23.3,
hematocrit 51.5, platelet count 295,000.  His Chem-10 showed
a sodium of 138, potassium 4.2, chloride 100, bicarbonate 27,
BUN 9, creatinine 1.3, glucose 135.  His initial troponin was
33.2.

His EKG showed sinus tachycardia at a rate of 104.  He had
diffuse ST elevations in leads I, II, and aVL along with
leads V2 through V6 up to 5 mm in leads V2 and V3.  It showed
Q waves in leads V1 through V4.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  Temperature
100.6, blood pressure 107/78, heart rate 108 beats per
minute, saturating at 100% on mechanical ventilation.
General:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished male in no
apparent distress.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm
with a systolic/diastolic rub.  Lungs: Coarse bilateral
breath sounds both anteriorly and laterally.  Abdomen: Soft,
nontender, nondistended with normal bowel sounds.
Intra-aortic balloon pump was in place along with a Cordis
Swan in the right femoral.  Extremities showed +2 dorsalis
pedis pulses.  There was no edema, cyanosis, or clubbing.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN:  This is a 43-year-old gentleman with a
noncontributory past medical history who presented from an
outside hospital with an acute ST elevation MI secondary to
total occlusion of the LAD which was not successfully lysed
with thrombolytics and unsuccessful PCI who presented to the
CCU for further management of his cardiogenic shock.

1.  CARDIAC:  Continue to follow the patient's cardiac
enzymes.  His peak CK was 3,236.  His peak CK MB was 201.
His peak index was 7.1.  His peak troponin was greater than
50.  The patient was started up on a beta blocker, ACE
inhibitor and an aspirin.  An echocardiogram revealed a left
atrium that was normal in size, left ventricular wall
thickness that was normal.  There was severe regional left
ventricular systolic dysfunction.  Overall, LV systolic
function was severely depressed with an ejection fraction of
20-25%.  A left ventricular mass/thrombus could not be
excluded.  Resting regional wall motion abnormalities
including akinesis of the apex, mid and distal anterior and
anterolateral walls along with a midinferior wall, right
ventricular chamber size and free wall motion were normal.
The aortic valve leaflets were structurally normal with good
leaflet exertion and no aortic regurgitation.  The mitral
valve leaflets were structurally normal.  There were no
pericardial effusions.

The patient was then started up on a heparin drip along with
Coumadin for the left ventricular thrombi.  The patient
remained tachycardiac and his beta blocker was increased.  He
remained in sinus tachycardia and an Esmolol drip was added
to his regimen.  On a follow-up echocardiogram, the patient
was found to have a small to moderate size pericardial
effusion which did not compromise his hemodynamics.

The patient was seen by the Cardiac Surgery Team who reviewed
the films and determined that there was no area for
touchdown.  The patient was a poor candidate for coronary
artery bypass graft.  It was determined to maximize his
medical management.

A fasting lipid panel was drawn.  It showed an HDL of 50, LDL
of 40.

2.  PULMONARY:  The patient was initially placed on
mechanical ventilation for airway protection.  He was
successfully extubated on [**2130-2-18**].  He appears to
have developed a lower lobe pneumonia.  His sputum yielded H.
influenzae and the patient completed a course of antibiotics.

3.  ALCOHOL:  The patient had a significant history of
alcohol use and he was started on a CIWA scale and given
Valium as needed for a score greater than 10 on the CIWA
scale.

The patient was discharged to home.  He was told to follow-up
with his new primary care physician, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].  He was
also scheduled a follow-up appointment with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in the
Heart Failure Clinic.  He was also set up to follow-up with
the [**Hospital 197**] Clinic.

DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2.  Enalapril 5 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
4.  Coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.h.s.





                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 2064**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(2) 2139**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 6284**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2131-4-4**]  11:25
T:  [**2131-4-4**]  22:59
JOB#:  [**Job Number 46016**]
