Admission Date:  [**2137-11-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2137-12-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2085-9-12**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 50-year-old
female with a history of advanced human immunodeficiency
virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome for 10 to 15 years
complicated by human immunodeficiency virus nephropathy,
human immunodeficiency virus cardiomyopathy (with an ejection
fraction of 15% to 20%), acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
related dementia and encephalopathy for the past who presents
with a history of lactic acidosis while taking proteus
inhibitors.

The patient was admitted to the hospital with lactic acidosis
presumed to be due to proteus inhibitors while on highly
active antiretroviral therapy.  She was admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit with hypoglycemia, hypothermia,
and hypotension.

The patient's blood pressure was stabilized without pressors.
Her hypoglycemia resolved.  The patient revealed evidence of
hepatic failure with liver function tests in the 100s, and a
total bilirubin of 26, and coagulopathy with an INR of
greater than 5.  This occurred after all her ACE inhibitors
and highly active antiretroviral therapy were discontinued.
The patient was initially made comfort measures only, and
after mentating better the patient was made do not
resuscitate/do not intubate, cardiopulmonary resuscitation
not indicated, due to her severe illness.  However, the
patient continued to receive full treatment of all of her
issues.

The patient was transferred to the floor for further
management by the medical team under the care of Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].  The patient's liver function tests did not improve
greatly; however, the patient was occasionally mentating and
was occasionally able to take oral intake; although, never
adequate for her poor nutritional status.

On [**2137-12-1**] the patient had a subsequent event of
hypoglycemia, hypotension, and bradycardia into the 30s.  A
code was called.  The patient was given atropine and her
heart rate rebounded.  Her blood pressure increased and
continued to increase with aggressive intravenous fluid
hydration.  The patient was given multiple ampules of
dextrose 50 every hour to maintain her glucose greater than
70.  It was presumed that the patient had no glycocin stores
and severe hepatic dysfunction prohibiting proper
gluconeogenesis.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's blood
pressure was maintained with a systolic blood pressure in the
110s with intravenous fluid boluses.  The patient was felt to
be severely dehydrated.  The patient was also persistently
hypothermic with a temperature of 96 degrees Fahrenheit
regularly, increasing to 97 degrees Fahrenheit rectally with
warming blankets.  Her heart rate was 50 to 74.  Her
respiratory rate was 22 to 27.  The patient's oxygen
saturation was 97% on room air.  In general, the patient was
a very thin and frail woman breathing deeply. She had her
eyes closed and was not responding well.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose, and throat examination revealed the patient's sclerae
were icteric.  Her pupils were reactive.  The oropharynx was
clear with no evidence of thrush.  On cardiovascular
examination, the patient had a regular rate and rhythm.
There was a 3/6 systolic murmur and third heart sound.  No
rubs.  Radial and dorsalis pedis pulses were 1+ bilaterally.
The lungs were clear with crackles halfway up bilaterally.
There was good air movement.  The patient's abdomen had
hypoactive bowel sounds.  The abdomen was distended and
nontender.  There was no organomegaly was appreciated.  The
patient's extremities were cool and dry with no edema.  The
patient's sacrum had erythema on the perineum.  Skin revealed
tinting on the forehead.  The patient had a right midline
peripherally inserted central catheter line placed with no
erythema or swelling.  She had a left fistula site on her
wrist that was bandaged due to subsequent spontaneous
bleeding.

IMPRESSION:  Our impression was that the patient was a frail
50-year-old female with advanced human immunodeficiency
virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, multiple
complications, with poor cardiac function, renal function
dependent on dialysis, and hepatic failure unlikely to
improve.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted
for further management, and a family meeting was called to
discuss the patient's code status.

On the evening prior to the family meeting, the patient had
11 beats of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia with
electrocardiogram changes.  The patient ruled out for a
myocardial infarction and was maintained on aspirin, and beta
blocker, and oxygen through nasal cannula.

Due to the spontaneously bleeding arteriovenous fistula site,
the patient was given multiple units of fresh frozen plasma
as well as packed red blood cells.  Over that night, the
patient's hematocrit dropped to 12%.

In the morning, the patient was not responding well.  A chest
x-ray was done because of agonal breathing.  The patient was
found to have total white out of the left lung.  It was
unclear if this due to an isolated effusion or spontaneous
pulmonary hemorrhage in the setting of a hematocrit drop.

It was also clear that over the past two days the patient had
low fibrinogen, an elevated prothrombin time and partial
thromboplastin time, an elevated lactate dehydrogenase, and a
haptoglobin of less than 20 which would also be consistent
with hemolysis and possible disseminated intravascular
coagulation; however, a full disseminated intravascular
coagulation panel was never checked, and it was thought to be
uninterpretable in the setting of liver failure.  The patient
was maintained on a D-10 drip to keep her glucose level above
70.

Up until this point, the patient had been receiving
hemodialysis every other day with ultrafiltration due to an
inability to take much off because of blood pressure demands.
The patient was also known to have chronic hypercalcemia due
to hyperparathyroidism from her renal failure which was
managed with hydration.

During the patient's hospitalization, she was off of highly
active antiretroviral therapy but was maintained on
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia and Mycobacterium
avium-intracellulare prophylaxis with azithromycin and
Bactrim.

For nutrition, it was very difficult to give the patient
proper nutrition as she would not tolerate tube feeds.  She
pulled out her postpyloric tube and could not mentate long
enough to take in oral intake adequate enough to improve her
nutritional status.

A family meeting was held.  The patient's primary nurse,
intern hospital attending (Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **], and the patient's
primary care provider over the 15 years (Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7626**])
were all present.  As the patient's sister and health care
proxy ([**Name (NI) **]) as well as her sister [**Doctor First Name **], and daughter.
It was discussed that the patient's health was extremely
poor.  It was unclear if the patient would ever survive to
discharge.  The patient's family still wanted all treatment
to be pursued but understood that it would extremely
difficult to resuscitate or ventilate her should she need
cardiopulmonary resuscitation or mechanical ventilation.  It
was determined that the patient would be do not
resuscitate/do not intubate.

One hour after signing this order, the patient had agonal
breathing.  She continued to have bradycardia in the 20s
which responded to atropine.  However, her respiratory status
worsened until full respiratory arrest.  The patient died on
[**2137-12-3**] due to respiratory failure secondary to a
pulmonary effusion and possible pulmonary hemorrhage
secondary to coagulopathy and liver failure, secondary to
human immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome.  The patient's family and primary care provider
(Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7626**]) were all made aware.  An autopsy was
refused.





                          [**Name6 (MD) 2467**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 10404**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 10405*