Admission Date:  [**2100-12-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2101-1-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2039-6-16**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61 year old man
with known three vessel coronary artery disease and
congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 25 to
30% who had a planned coronary artery bypass grafting
scheduled for the morning of admission when he was noted to
be acutely short of breath while undressing in the
Preoperative Holding Area.  States this is more severe than
his usual and did not resolve with rest.  He had no
associated chest pain.  He received 40 mg of intravenous
Lasix, Captopril, Lopressor and was started on Nitroglycerin
drip.  He subsequently diuresed 1100 cc and had symptomatic
improvement.  Over that day he was weaned off of his
Nitroglycerin drip and was seen to have improvement in his
symptoms.  He had noted one month history of increasing
dyspnea on exertion and orthopnea and had been admitted to
[**Hospital 882**] Hospital in early [**Month (only) 1096**] with similar symptoms.
An echocardiogram at that time revealed an ejection fraction
of 40% with global hypokinesis and a catheterization
reportedly showed three vessel disease for which he was then
transferred to the [**Hospital6 256**]  on
[**2100-12-2**].  His initial workup showed troponin of .56
and a chest x-ray with bilateral effusion and a left upper
lobe infiltrate.  He was started on beta blocker, ACE
inhibitor and heparin and received Levaquin for a urinary
tract infection plus a possible pneumonia.  Due to his
infection, his coronary artery bypass graft was subsequently
deferred at that time and since he had a history of stable
angina he was discharged to home at that time to return for
elective surgery.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, congestive
heart failure with an ejection fraction of 25 to 30% by
echocardiogram on [**2100-12-1**], borderline hypertension,
recent urinary tract infection on last admission and recent
pneumonia on last admission.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He was born in [**Country 4754**] and now lives in
[**Location 2312**].  He is not married and has no children.  His
tobacco history reveals he smoked 1 1/2 packs per day for 15
years and quit 25 years ago.  He does drink occasional
alcohol and does not use intravenous drugs.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  His medications at home include Captopril 12.5
mg p.o. b.i.d., Lopressor 15 mg p.o. t.i.d., Aspirin 325 mg
p.o. q.d., Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.d.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Significant for positive dyspnea on
exertion, positive orthopnea, positive dry cough, no fevers
or chills or urinary frequency and no dysuria.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination he is a
pleasant well nourished, well developed male in no apparent
distress.  His vital signs showed a temperature of 97,
heart rate 91, blood pressure 114/62, respirations 22, and
oxygen saturations of 92% on 76% face mask.  His head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat showed pupils equal, round and reactive
to light, extraocular movements intact, and oropharynx is
clear.  His neck has jugulovenous pressure to about 9 to 10
cm.  He has no bruits.  Carotid pulses are 2+ bilaterally.
His lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally and heart is
regular rate and rhythm with a normal S1 and S2 with no
murmur, rub or gallop.  His abdomen is soft, nontender,
nondistended with positive bowel sounds.  His extremities
showed 2+ pitting edema to the mid calf with 2+ dorsalis
pedis and 2+ posterior tibialis pulses.  His neurological
examination shows him to be alert and oriented and grossly
intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  His laboratory data on admission include a
white count of 19.1, hematocrit 45.5%, platelet count of
368,000 and sodium of 41, potassium 3.1, chloride 106, carbon
dioxide 22, BUN 16, creatinine 1.1 and blood glucose is 186.
His electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 119
beats/minute with T wave inversions in V5 and V6 which were
old and [**Street Address(2) 4793**] depressions in V1.  His chest x-ray showed
low lung volumes, positive for mild congestive heart failure
and positive for bilateral effusions.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was then admitted and brought
to the Coronary Care Unit where he was diuresed, treated and
stabilized.  He was then later that date transferred to the
floor where he continued to be diuresed.  On the evening of
admission he was noted to have a brief run of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia consisting of five beats during which
he was stable and asymptomatic.  His enzymes were checked
over the day and his troponin peaked at .21.  On [**2100-12-30**], he had transthoracic cardiac echocardiogram which
showed 1 to 2+ mitral regurgitation which was unchanged from
previous echocardiogram and an ejection fraction of about
25%.  Later that night he was noted to have a ten beat run
and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia during which he was
asymptomatic with stable vital signs.  On [**12-31**], he was
thought to be stable and he was brought to the Operating Room
for coronary artery bypass grafting times four with the left
internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending
coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal
sequential to the ramus and a saphenous vein graft to the
right coronary artery.  This surgery was performed by Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].  The surgery was performed under general
endotracheal anesthesia with a cardiopulmonary bypass time of
123 minutes and a cross-clamp time of 91 minutes.  The
patient was transferred to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit
in stable but critical condition on Levophed, Milrinone and
Propofol drips.  He pulled from anesthesia well, followed
commands and was extubated later that evening.  He also was
started on an insulin drip for blood sugars greater than 120.
By postoperative day #1, his Milrinone was weaned off and he
was started on Amiodarone drip for brief runs of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia.  By postoperative day #2, he
continued on his Amiodarone drip to help prevent further
ectopy and required Levophed for blood pressure support.  He
had his chest tubes discontinued without incident on
postoperative day #3 and was transfused 1 unit of packed red
blood cells on this date.  On postoperative day #3 he was
transferred from the Unit to the Surgical Floor and was
started on cardiac rehabilitation physical therapy.  Chest
x-ray performed on postoperative day #4 showed mild to
moderate left pleural effusion.  He continued with diuresis
and repeat chest x-ray on postoperative day #5 showed slight
improvement in this effusion and it was felt that the patient
was ready to be discharged to home with the [**Hospital6 1587**] services.

His discharge examination revealed vital signs stable with a
temperature of 98.8, heart rate 78, blood pressure 100/67,
respirations 20 and oxygen saturations 93% on room air.  His
lungs were clear to auscultation.  His heart was regular rate
and rhythm.  His abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended
with positive bowel sounds.  His incisions are clean, dry and
intact.

His discharge laboratory data included white count of 12.6,
hematocrit 27.7%, platelet count of 273,000, sodium 137,
potassium 4.0, chloride 101, carbon dioxide 30, BUN 17,
creatinine 1.1 and blood glucose of 93.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION/CONDITION:  He will be discharged to
home with [**Hospital6 407**] services in good
condition.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.
Aspirin enteric coated 325 mg p.o. q.d.
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. prn.
Isordil 30 mg p.o. q.d., this is due to poor targets for
bypass grafts.
Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d., also due to poor targets for his
bypass graft.
Amiodarone 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. times seven days and then 400
mg p.o. q.d. times seven days and then 1 tablet p.o. q.d. and
the need for this medication is to be reassessed by the
patient's cardiologist in one month's time.
Amantadine Hydrochloride 10 cc p.o. b.i.d. for four days as
the patient was exposed to a patient who tested positive for
influenza.
Lasix 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. times seven days, then 60 mg p.o.
b.i.d. times five days.
Pota