Admission Date:  [**2192-10-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2192-10-31**]

Date of Birth:   [**2121-6-24**]       Sex:  F

Service:

This is a 71-year-old female with a history of coronary
artery disease who had a coronary artery bypass graft in the
past 18 years ago who had congestive heart failure and was
hospitalized for an exacerbation.  Experienced chest pain the
night before and relieved with nitroglycerin, and she
presented for cardiac catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery
disease, unstable angina, status post coronary artery bypass
graft 18 years ago, high cholesterol, hypothyroidism, status
post TAH/BSO, and hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  She has allergies to sulfa.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Synthroid 0.625 mg po q day,
Norvasc and sublingual nitroglycerin prn.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical exam, she was afebrile and
vital signs were stable.  She was in no apparent distress.
She had no jugular venous distention.  Her neck was supple.
She had a murmur in her carotids.  She has regular, rate, and
rhythm, normal S1, S2.  She had 2/6 systolic ejection murmur
radiating to the carotids.  Lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended, bowel
sounds present.  Extremities were no clubbing, cyanosis, or
edema.  She is warm and well perfused.  She has bilateral 2+
dorsalis pedis pulses.

On admission her white count was 10.4, hematocrit 33.0,
platelets of 278,000.  Chem-7:  Sodium is 137, potassium 3.7,
chloride 103, bicarb 25, BUN 15, creatinine 0.7, blood
glucose 193, INR was 1.2.

She was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory which
showed multi-vessel disease.  CT Surgery was consulted at
that time.  She was taken to the operating room on [**2192-10-25**]
where a redo coronary artery bypass graft x4 was performed.
Patient was transferred to the CSRU, where she did well.  She
was able to be weaned from her ventilator and extubated and
had great O2 saturations on 4 liters nasal cannula.  She had
good urine output and was started on a clear liquid diet.

Chest tubes remained in at that time due to high output.
Patient continued to do well and hematocrit was stable.  She
was transferred to the floor on postoperative day #1 and just
prior to transfer to the floor, she had an episode of rapid
atrial fibrillation which was converted with IV Lopressor.
On arriving to the floor, she had another episode of rapid
atrial fibrillation which required again IV Lopressor as well
as amiodarone bolus.  The patient converted and was rate
controlled.

At that time however, she converted to sinus rhythm after
that.  Her Foley was removed and she did well.  Physical
therapy was consulted to assess her ambulation and mobility.
She did well with physical therapy and they felt that she
would benefit most from cardiac rehabilitation.

On postoperative day #3 her chest tubes were removed and she
was converted to sinus rhythm at that time.  Continued on her
amiodarone was changed to 400 mg po q day for dosing.  Her
wires were removed postoperatively, and she continued to
improve.  She began complaining of some right arm weakness,
but she said it continued from postoperatively and on
examination, she had diffuse right arm weakness, unable to
move whatsoever, but sensation was intact at that time, and
Neurology was consulted, who suggested a head CT scan.

Head CT scan was done which showed a small stroke in the left
internal capsular region.  Her right arm function began to
improve after that time and she continued to improve her
strength and reflexes.  Neurology continued to follow along
and patient did well.  Patient is continuing to be slightly
hypertensive and started on Captopril at this time.  At time
of dictation, the patient is being transferred for
rehabilitation, discharge date pending.  Please see addendum.

Her discharge medications currently include Lasix 20 mg po
bid, Lopressor 25 mg po bid, Synthroid 162.5 mcg po q day,
Percocet 1-2 tablets po q4 hours, amiodarone 400 mg po q day,
EC-ASA 325 mg po q day, Colace 100 mg po bid, [**First Name5 (NamePattern1) 233**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1002**] 20 mEq
po bid, Zantac 150 mg po bid, Motrin 400 mg po q6 hours prn.

She is discharged to rehab facility in stable condition.
Instructed to followup with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] in [**5-19**] weeks and with
her primary care physician [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] [**2-15**] weeks.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Coronary artery disease status post
redo coronary artery bypass graft x4, high cholesterol,
hypothyroidism, status post total abdominal hysterectomy and
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, hypertension.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**First Name (STitle) **]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2192-10-31**]  10:38
T:  [**2192-10-31**]  10:51
JOB#:  [**Job Number 23114**]
