Admission Date: [**2138-5-5**]        Discharge Date: [**2138-5-15**]

Date of Birth:  [**2070-2-18**]        Sex:  M

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left ankle-foot nonhealing ulceration.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This patient was hospitalized
from [**2138-4-9**] to [**2138-4-11**], for his nonhealing
ulceration. He underwent a diagnostic lower extremity
angiogram. Patient was determined to be a surgical candidate.
He now returns for elective revascularization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Type 2 diabetes with triopathy, end-
stage renal disease, hemodialysis Monday, Wednesday, Friday,
history of coronary artery disease with cardiomyopathy,
history of systolic congestive heart failure, pulmonary edema
compensated, status post coronary artery bypasses x2 with
vein complicated by respiratory failure requiring a
tracheostomy, history of pneumonia, history of catheter
sepsis, MRSA; history of atrial fibrillation, history of
bilateral DVTs with pulmonary embolus anticoagulated, history
of depression, history of hypertension, history of GERD,
history of gastroparesis, history of morbid obesity.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient lives at rehab. He does not smoke or
drink.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  Patient was in no acute distress, oriented
x3. He had an irregularly, irregular rhythm without murmur,
gallop, or rub. Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdominal exam was unremarkable except for obese,
protuberant, soft, nontender belly. The left ankle had a 2.5-
cm nonhealing ulceration with purulence. There was dry eschar
with an erythematous rim. The pulse exam showed palpable DP
and PTs bilaterally.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Bupropion 100 mg daily, donepezil
5 mg at bedtime, lactulose 10 grams in 15 cc, 30 cc Tuesdays,
Sundays, and Thursdays, Reglan 5 mg b.i.d., calcium acetate
tablets, atorvastatin 20 mg at bedtime, Nephrocaps daily,
mirtazapine 45 mg at bedtime, niacin 500 mg at bedtime,
levothyroxine 50 mcg daily, Prozac 20 mg daily, fluconazole
110 mcg inhaler puffs 2 b.i.d., sublingual nitroglycerin 0.04
p.r.n.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was admitted to the vascular
service. Vancomycin, ciprofloxacin, and Flagyl were
instituted. The patient was prepared for surgery and prior to
surgery, underwent dialysis. Patient proceeded to surgery on
[**2138-5-6**]. He had a redo left mid SFA to BK-[**Doctor Last Name **] bypass with
nonreverse saphenous vein left, angioscopy and valve lysis.
Urology was consulted intraoperatively to place a Foley. The
patient underwent a cystoscopy which showed slight narrowing
at the bulbar urethra. Patient was dilated, and a Foley
catheter was placed. This remained in for 7 days
postoperatively.

Patient was transferred to the PACU in stable condition.
Postoperative day 1, there were no acute events.
Postoperative day 2, patient's T. max was 101. Blood cultures
were obtained which were no growth. The patient remained in
the VICU. On physical exam, he had a left Dopplerable DP and
PT. Potassium was 7.2. Patient went to dialysis.

Wound care service was requested to see the patient for a
type stage I pressure ulceration on the sacrum.
Recommendations were turn frequently. Keep heels off of bed
surface at all times and apply protective ointment to the
area after cleaning the area carefully.

Postoperative day 3, patient's T. max was 98.0. His potassium
improved postdialysis. He was sent to the regular nursing
floor for continued care. Patient had very poor venous
access, and a PICC was recommended. It was determined at this
time that his antibiotics will be converted to oral agents,
and the vancomycin would be dosed at dialysis.

Postoperative day 5, patient continued to progress. He
remained afebrile and ambulation to chair was begun.

Postoperative day 6, the patient was afebrile. He complained
of mild dyspnea with desaturation which responded to face
mask. The chest x-ray demonstrated near white of the left
chest. The CT was considered. CT scan was done which showed
collapse of the left lung. Patient was transferred to the
ICU, where he underwent a bronchoscopy. Was intubated and
ventilator support overnight.

Postoperative day 7, patient remained in the unit, intubated,
and bronchoscopy was repeated with improvement in left lung
aeration. At this point, they felt the patient, from
pulmonary standpoint, had improved enough to be extubated and
transferred back to the regular nursing floor. Patient did
require transfusion for a hematocrit of 23.7.

Pulmonary was consulted on postoperative day 9 for continued
left lower lobe changes, concerns for pneumonia and
appropriate treatment. Their recommendations were to continue
aggressive pulmonary PT. Discontinue the Mucomyst as this can
increase secretion thickness. Discontinue the Tylenol since
it may be hiding a fever. Recommend fluid removal at dialysis
if blood pressure will tolerate. Will avoid sedating
medications. Begin albuterol nebulizers q.4 hours standing
and q.2 hours p.r.n. with Atrovent nebulizers q.6 hours. Felt
he did not need to be rebronched at this time to consider
starting CPAP for possible OSA at night. Continue his
antibiotics, vancomycin and levofloxacin. Add cefepime for
concerns for hospital-acquired pneumonia. Maintain
saturations greater than 91%. Keep patient on right side as
much as possible for postural drainage. Continue to monitor
pulmonary status by daily x-rays.

Sputum culture was obtained which showed no microorganisms on
Gram stain and it was finalized of rare growth of
oropharyngeal flora. This cefepime was discontinued. The
patient will be continued on vancomycin and levofloxacin for
total of 7 more days. The vancomycin will be given at
hemodialysis when the level is less than 15. Vancomycin will
be orally. Patient was made n.p.o. for potential rebronch on
[**2138-5-15**]. Patient will return to his nursing home once
patient is medically stable.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  Patient may ambulate essential
distances. Please elevate the leg when patient is sitting in
a chair. Please call us if he develops a fever greater than
101.5 or the leg wounds become erythematous, drain, or he has
groin swelling. The patient may shower, but no tub baths.
Please continue all medications as ordered. Random levels on
a daily basis to determine when to dose at dialysis of
vancomycin. Sacral decubitus care should be continued with
adequate cleansing and protective ointment to the skin.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Miconazole powder to effected area
p.r.n., senna tablets 8.6 mg tablets 1 b.i.d., fluconazole
110 mcg actuation aerosol +2 b.i.d., paroxetine 20 mg daily,
niacin 500 mg daily, levothyroxine 50 mcg daily, mirtazapine
15 mg tablets 3 at bedtime, calcium acetate 667 mg capsules 1
t.i.d. with meals, donepezil 5 mg at bedtime, B complex,
vitamin C, folic acid, capsule 1 mg daily, lactulose 30 cc
daily, atorvastatin 20 mg daily, Reglan 5 mg a.c. and at
bedtime, bupropion 100 mg sustained release q.a.m.,
amiodarone 200 mg daily, lansoprazole 30 mg daily, Colace 50
mg in 5 cc b.i.d., metoprolol 25 mg b.i.d., albuterol sulfate
0.083% solution inhalation q.2 hours, ipratropium bromide
0.02% solution inhalation q.6 hours, levofloxacin 500 mg q.48
hours for a total of 7 days, acetaminophen 325 mg tablets [**1-7**]
q.4-6 hours p.r.n., vancomycin 1 gram at dialysis when random
level is less than 15 for a total of 7 days, glargine U100
eight units subcutaneously daily at breakfast. Humalog
sliding scale before meals: Glucoses less than 150: No
insulin, 151-200: 1 unit, 201-250: 2 units, 251-300: 3 units,
301-350: 4 units, 351-400: 5 units, greater than 400: Notify
physician. [**Name10 (NameIs) **] bedtime sliding scale glucoses less than 250:
No insulin, 251-300: 2 units; 351-400: 3 units; glucoses
greater than 400: Notify physician.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Ischemic left foot ulceration,
nonhealing; peripheral vascular disease status post
diagnostic arteriogram on [**2138-4-10**], history of type 2
diabetes with triopathy, controlled; history of end-stage
renal disease on hemodialysis Monday, Wednesday, Friday,
history of coronary artery disease with cardiomyopathy,
status post coronary artery bypass graft x2 complicated by
congestive heart failure, systolic; respir