Admission Date:  [**2117-9-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2117-9-4**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 62-year-old
gentleman with a past medical history significant for
hypertension who was admitted to [**Hospital1 190**] for cardiac catheterization.

The patient was in his usual state of health until admission
when he noted a coldness and numbness and urinary symptoms.
No fevers or chills.  His symptoms persisted.  The patient
then presented to his primary care physician's office three
days prior to admission complaining of a cough and mild
shortness of breath.  He was found to be in atrial
fibrillation with a heart rate of 150.  He was given a
prescription for a beta blocker.  He was started on Lopressor
50 mg by mouth twice per day.   The patient took three doses
of this, but he continued to have symptoms.  He then began to
experience a significant cough.  The patient then presented
to [**Hospital3 15174**].

Upon admission to the Emergency Department, the patient was
noted to be in a near complex tachycardia with a rate in the
140s to 150s; thought to be atrial flutter versus atrial
tachycardia.  The patient received adenosine without any
response.  He had also received a pulmonary embolism protocol
computed tomography which was negative.  He had an
echocardiogram which revealed an ejection fraction of 20% and
severe mitral regurgitation.  He continued to be symptomatic.
He also received Lopressor, nitroglycerin paste, and Flovent,
Lasix, digoxin, amiodarone, and Cardizem.  He also received
four shocks.  He was then transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for a cardiac catheterization.

He cardiac catheterization revealed single-vessel coronary
artery disease with 80% stenosis of his proximal left
anterior descending artery.  The patient received a cypher
stent to his proximal left anterior descending artery.
Cardiac catheterization revealed systolic and diastolic
ventricular dysfunction.  The patient was then admitted to
the Coronary Care Unit for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  No known coronary artery disease.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lopressor 50 mg by mouth twice per
day (times two days).

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is retired.  No alcohol use.  He
quit tobacco seven years prior.

FAMILY HISTORY:  No family history of coronary artery
disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed the patient's temperature was 97.7
degrees Fahrenheit, his blood pressure was 149/63, his heart
rate was 127, his respiratory rate was 19, and his oxygen
saturation was 96% on 2 liters oxygen via nasal cannula.  In
general, the patient was pleasant and conversant.  The
patient was in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose,
and throat examination revealed the pupils were equal, round,
and reactive to light and accommodation.   The extraocular
movements were intact.  The oropharynx was clear.  The
patient had poor dentition.  Neck examination revealed the
neck was supple and soft.  Jugular venous pulsation to the
ear.  Cardiovascular examination revealed an irregular rate
and rhythm.  A 1/6 systolic ejection murmur heard at the
apex.  The abdominal examination revealed positive bowel
sounds.  The abdomen was soft and obese.  The liver edge was
palpated two inches below the costal margin.  The lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Extremity examination
revealed the extremities were warm and dry.  The dorsalis
pedis and posterior tibialis pulses were 2+.  There was 1+
lower extremity edema.  Neurologic examination revealed no
focal deficits.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  Coronary artery disease:
The patient was transferred to the [**Hospital1 190**] for cardiac catheterization.

There was concern that his recent atrial fibrillation and
severe congestive heart failure could be ischemic in origin.
However, his cardiac catheterization showed only 1-vessel
disease with an 80% stenosis of his left anterior descending
artery.  This lesion was stented; however, this was thought
not to be contributing to his current symptoms.  The patient
had no active ischemic symptoms or chest pain during his
hospitalization.   Following the cypher stent to his left
anterior descending artery, the patient was stable and had no
complications with stenting.

(b)  Pump:  The patient was admitted with no prior history of
coronary artery disease.  However, an echocardiogram done at
an outside hospital revealed severe systolic and diastolic
dysfunction with an ejection fraction of 20%.  The patient
was thought to have a new onset dilated cardiomyopathy likely
following a viral myocarditis subsequent to his recent viral
upper respiratory tract infection.

The patient was started on Coumadin for anticoagulation given
his severe ventricular dysfunction.  The patient was also
started on a beta blocker and an ACE inhibitor.  The patient
was admitted in significant heart failure.  He was placed on
a Natrecor drip and successfully diuresed.  He was then
converted to a daily dose of Lasix.  He was weaned off
oxygen, and his respiratory status remained stable on room
air.

(c)  Rhythm:  The patient was admitted with the new onset of
atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter following his new onset
dilated cardiomyopathy and myocarditis.

The patient underwent an atrial flutter ablation.  He was
then started on amiodarone which was then slowly titrated up.
The patient's amiodarone dose was to continue to be titrated
up following his discharge.  The patient was also to follow
up with the Device Clinic in the morning to obtain [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] of
Hearts monitor.  The patient was also started on Coumadin and
maintained on aspirin and Plavix.

2.  TRANSAMINITIS ISSUES:  The patient was admitted with
mildly elevated liver function tests.  These were trending
down and normalized during his hospitalization.  These were
thought to be related to his acute viral syndrome and to
concomitant congestive heart failure.

3.  RENAL ISSUES:  The patient was admitted with a slightly
elevated creatinine which was thought to be acute renal
failure due to his dye load following the cardiac
catheterization.  The patient had also received a computed
tomography contrast at the outside hospital.  The patient was
well hydrated and concomitantly diuresed, and his creatinine
quickly normalized.

4.  PULMONARY ISSUES:   A computed tomography at the outside
hospital showed a right upper lobe nodule.  The patient will
need outpatient followup of this nodule.  The patient did not
have any acute pulmonary issues during this hospitalization.
The patient was briefly on oxygen in the setting of
congestive heart failure, but he was quickly weaned to room
air which he tolerated well.

5.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION ISSUES:  The patient was
initially nothing by mouth for procedures.  He was then
placed on a cardiac diet which he tolerated well.  His
electrolytes were followed, and he had no significant
abnormalities.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Dilated cardiomyopathy.
2.  Viral myocarditis.
3.  Atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharge status was to home.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  (Discharge medications included)
1.  Captopril 6.25 mg by mouth three times per day.
2.  Coumadin 5 mg by mouth at hour of sleep.
3.  Metoprolol 50 mg by mouth three times per day.
4.  Plavix 75 mg by mouth once per day.
5.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
6.  Amiodarone 400 mg by mouth three times per day times one
day; then 600 mg by mouth once per day times one week; then
400 mg by mouth once per day times two weeks; and then 200 mg
by mouth once per day indefinitely.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOWUP:
1.  The patient was instructed to follow up in the Device
Clinic on the day following discharge for [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] of Hearts
monitor and INR checks.
2.  The patient was also instructed to follow up with his
primary care physici