Admission Date:  [**2157-8-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2157-8-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2090-1-6**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name 1181**]

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 67-year-old
woman who is one month status post radioactive iodine for
hyperthyroidism.  She noted palpitations, increased heart
rate at 1 AM, rapid shallow breathing, jaw tightness, and
shooting pain down her side.  She came to the emergency
department.  She denies chest tight, paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea, orthopnea.  The patient says that she has been
having shorter episodes of palpitations, most lasting ten
minutes for the past six weeks.  The patient has an extensive
thyroid history.  In the 80s she was found to be hypothyroid
and she was started on Synthroid for many years.  However,
after further testing, the thyroid function came back normal
and Synthroid was discontinued.  In [**2149**], she was noted to
have thyroid function test.  Thyroid uptake scan was done,
which showed 54% uptake, however, at that time therapeutic
options for the hyperthyroidism were discussed with the
patient and the patient chose not to take any steps.  She
says that they continued to follow the thyroid for many
years, but stopped after it seemed not to be an issue.  The
patient says that six weeks ago she started having
palpitations on a routine visit to her hospital and she noted
that the TSH level was less than 0.05 and she had elevated
free T4.  The patient was scheduled for another uptake scan,
which showed 24% uptake.  They decided to proceed with
radioactive iodide treatment.  Prior to that point, the
patient said that she was having problems with fatigue, which
was longstanding.  The patient apparently had been diagnosed
with chronic fatigue syndrome.  She also noted that she had
increasing bowel movements in the morning.  She said that she
had cold intolerance. At the time of the first visit to the
thyroid clinic, they noted her thyroid to be 60 grams, and
nontender.  The patient had radioactive iodide therapy done
on [**7-20**].  She returned to the clinic complaining of pain in
her thyroid, neck region.  Also, the patient had extreme
episodes of fatigue, where she would have to lie down and she
would immediately fall asleep. She also had heat intolerance.

In the emergency room, EKG was done and revealed that the
patient was in atrial fibrillation.  She was given 20 mg
Diltiazem and then switched to beta blockers and given three
successive Lopressor pushes at 5 mg and then 25 mg PO.  Heart
rate decreased to the 130s from the 180s to 190s.  The jaw
pain disappeared and she complained of no chest pain after
that.  The systolic blood pressure fell to the 70s.  She
became diaphoretic.  She had a headache and she had some
chest tightness, but no confusion.  After given a bolus of
250 cc normal saline the blood pressure went up to the 90s.
She felt better, but she could not say that the chest
pressure was done.   The cardiologist was consulted,
Dr.  [**First Name (STitle) **], who agreed with proceeding with cardioversion
in the ED.  The patient was sedated and cardioverter to sinus
rhythm in the emergency department.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  History includes chronic fatigue syndrome.
2.  Headaches.
3.  Leg pain.
4.  Osteoporosis.
5.  Osteoarthritis.
6.  Thyroid history as per history of present illness.
7.  Right pneumonectomy status post injury in the warm of
independence in [**Country **] 40 years ago.
8.  Hypercholesterolemia status post total abdominal
hysterectomy, no bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.
9.  Vertigo status post appendectomy.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to SULFA, CODEINE,
PENICILLIN, TETRACYCLINE.  She also had breast cancer in [**2135**]
and chemotherapy and mastectomy.  There was no radiation.
She has gastroesophageal reflux disease.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Neurontin.
2.  Zocor.
3.  Fosamax 335 mg per week.
4.  Prilosec, which the patient takes with the Fosamax.
5.  Excedrin.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Examination revealed the following:
Temperature 98.9, pulse 189, but then fell to 130 after rate
control.  Blood pressure 104/60.  Respiratory rate 22.  Pulse
oximetry 95% on room air.  She is a well-developed,
well-nourished woman in no acute distress.  No JVD.  Eyes
were anicteric.  Oropharynx clear.  Pupils equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  NECK:
Supple.  CHEST:  The patient's right chest had a scar on it
from mastectomy.  She had decreased breath sounds on the
right.  On the left she had basilar crackles.  ABDOMEN:
Positive bowel sounds, soft nontender, healed scar.  No
clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  NEUROLOGICAL:  Nonfocal, alert
and oriented.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Strokes noted in both parents, brother with
a brain tumor.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies alcohol, drugs, or
smoking.  She lives with the husband.  She is a retired law
professor.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission the labs revealed the
following:  Sodium 143, potassium 3.6, chloride 104,
bicarbonate 30, BUN 24, creatinine 0.6, glucose 138, White
blood cell 10.5, hematocrit 35.3, platelet count 330, PTT
25.2, INR 1.1, 40% polyps, 40% lymphs, 6% monocytes, 3%
eosinophils.  The HDL was 51, LDL 140, triglycerides 141,
The first set of cardiac enzymes showed CPK of 39.  EKG:
Rapid atrial fibrillation, normal axis, diffusely depressed
ST depression, good R-wave progressive.

The Department of Cardiology was consulted and agreed with
the plan to keeping the patient on beta blocker for rate
control.  Chest x-ray at the time showed effusion of the left
base, questionable atelectasis versus infiltrate in the left
lower lobe.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was transferred to CC7 for
observation, status post cardioversion.  She was kept on beta
blocker.  The patient started complaining of increasing
shortness of breath.  Lungs were, at that time , were clear
to auscultation with the exception of decreased breath sounds
at the left lower lung.  The patient's beta blocker dose was
decreased to 12.5 for possible bronchial spasm.  However,
during the course of the night, she went into progressively
worse respiratory distress and finally had decreased mental
status and extreme bronchospasm/congestive heart failure.
The patient's ABG showed pCO2 of 130 and a pO2 in the 100s.
The pH at that time was 7.0.  The Department of
Anesthesiology was called and the patient was intubated and
transferred to the MICU.  The patient was diuresed.  Chest
x-ray showed fluids in the lungs and she diuresed 1.5 liters.
 The respiratory status improved.  The patient was extubated
the next day.

PULMONARY:  The patient still had shortness of breath and at
times low oxygen saturation.  However, she improved with
Atrovent nebulizer and diuresis.  It is felt that the
symptoms were secondary to both bronchospasm from the beta
blocker and volume overload from the fluid she received in
the emergency department.  Repeat chest ray showed the
pleural effusion had improved, however, it showed signs of
atelectasis/pneumonia.  The patient also had an episode of
emesis during the time of respiratory distress and it was
feared that she had aspiration pneumonia.  However, the
patient remained afebrile and repeat chest x-ray showed no
infiltrate.  The patient's respiratory status improved after
she was given incentive spirometer and she started
ambulating.  On discharge she will still receive Atrovent
nebulizer treatments.

CARDIAC:  Coronary artery disease.  The patient has no known
coronary artery disease, however, she had transient troponin
of 4.4, after cardioversion.  It is believed that this is
most likely from the cardioversion and not ischemia.
However, the patient will benefit from stress test after her
hypothyroidism issues resolve.  The patient was kept on
Lipitor 20 mg q.d. during her admission for
cardiac-productive measures.

PUMP:  The patient had an echocardiogram done on [**2157-8-17**],
showing mild LV hypertrophy, left ventricular cavity size
normal, overall ventricular systolic function with normal
with left ventricular ejection fraction of greater than 55%.
Aortic valve leaflets are mildly thickened.  No aortic
regurgitation seen.  Mitral leaf