Admission Date:  [**2163-12-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2163-12-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2114-11-9**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 49 year-old male with
a past medical history significant for coronary artery
disease status post an obtuse marginal stent in the past,
hyperlipidemia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, asthma,
obesity with no history of tobacco or alcohol use or abuse.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has allergies to codeine.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:  Lipitor 10 mg po q.h.s.,
aspirin one tab q.d., Prevacid 30 mg po q day, Atenolol 100
mg po q.a.m., Isordil 10 mg po t.i.d., Univasc 15 mg po
q.a.m.

This is a 49 year-old male who was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for cardiac catheterization after
being admitted to [**Hospital 1474**] Hospital the day prior to
admission, which was [**2164-1-11**] for chest pain and shortness
of breath with electrocardiogram changes suggestive of
ischemia.  The patient has a history of cardiac
catheterization in [**2163-10-12**] with stents placed to
the left circumflex and obtuse marginal revealing left main
to 20% and right coronary artery occlusion of 100% as well as
left anterior descending coronary artery disease of 60%.  The
patient's chest pain was substernal nonradiating with no
complaints of nausea, vomiting or diaphoresis.  It occurred
at rest as well as worsening with exertion.  Nitroglycerin
with good relief.  He was ruled out for anterior myocardial
infarction by enzymes.

The patient underwent cardiac catheterization on the day of
his admission, which was [**12-13**], which revealed 50% left
main coronary artery disease, 50% mid left anterior
descending coronary artery disease, 90% disease of the left
circumflex at the origin and 60% in stent restenosis of the
left circumflex, 90% origin of obtuse marginal one and obtuse
marginal two and the right coronary artery was not injected.
It had a known total occlusion filling via the left coronary
collaterals.

The patient underwent coronary artery bypass grafting times
three [**2163-12-14**] with a left internal mammary artery
to the left anterior descending, saphenous vein graft to the
diagonal and right radial artery to the obtuse marginal.  The
patient's total cardiopulmonary bypass time was 89 minutes
and total cross clamp time 56 minutes.  The patient was
transferred to the Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit in stable
condition on nitroglycerin and propofol.  The patient was
extubated later on the day of surgery.  Postoperative day one
the patient remained afebrile in sinus rhythm at 82 on nitro
drip at one and insulin drip of three with a stable
hematocrit and good urine output.  Physical examination
unremarkable with the plan to discontinued the nitroglycerin
and to begin Imdur po and to fast track to the floor.
Postoperative day two at 2:00 in the morning the patient
went into atrial fibrillation with a heart rate in the 150s,
blood pressure 185/90, 5 mg of Lopresor was administered
times two as well as an Amiodarone bolus of 150 mg.  An
additional 25 mg of Lopressor po was needed to increase his
daily dose to 50 mg po b.i.d.  He was started on Amiodarone
400 mg po t.i.d. with his heart rate coming down to the 90s
and blood pressure 136/60 without further intervention.

On postoperative day two later on that day the patient is
without complaints aside from the episode of atrial
fibrillation earlier.  Afebrile, vital signs are stable in
sinus rhythm.  Plan to continue Lopressor now at 50 mg po
b.i.d. as well as Amiodarone and to discontinue the chest
tubes and Foley catheter.  Postoperative day three the
patient with no further episodes of atrial fibrillation over
the last 24 hours without complaints with good pain control
in sinus rhythm at 73 with low grade temperature of
temperature max 99.6.  Physical examination remained
unchanged with the plan to possibly discharge the patient to
home the following day.  Postoperative day four the patient
was without complaints overnight.  Aside from constipation
for which the patient was administered Colace without effect.
The patient was discharged home with services.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg po q day, atenolol 100
mg po q.d., Lansoprazole 30 mg po q day, Simvastatin 20 mg po
q day, Acetaminophen 650 mg po q 4 hours prn pain.  Percocet
one to two tabs po q 4 to 6 hours prn pain, potassium
chloride 20 milliequivalents po q day, Isosorbide dinitrate
20 mg po t.i.d.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  The patient was discharged home in
stable condition.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass
grafting times three.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 75**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 5577**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2164-1-12**]  11:19
T:  [**2164-1-16**]  07:55
JOB#:  [**Job Number 28294**]
