Admission Date:  [**2107-3-21**]       Discharge Date: [**2107-4-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2041-7-11**]       Sex:  F

Service:  VASCULAR

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left leg ischemia and cellulitis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 65-year-old female
with severe bilateral lower extremity inflow and outflow
disease who was scheduled for an aorto-bifemoral bypass on
[**3-25**] with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] with prior three-week history of
left foot pain with ambulation.  She requires wheelchair for
ambulation.  Prior to that, she ambulated independently
without claudication symptoms.  There was a painful cut on
the left lateral foot which progressed to weeping and pain
over the last three days.  She was started on Augmentin two
days prior to admission.  She denied constitutional symptoms.
The patient also has a history of carotid disease and stated
that she was to have carotid endarterectomy prior to her
aorto-bifemoral.  She denied any symptoms.  The patient was
admitted for further vascular evaluation and treatment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  History of Hodgkin's lymphoma 13 years
ago.  Status post splenectomy and thoracic lymph node
dissection.  Status post radiation to the chest and
mediastinum.  History of hypercholesterolemia.  History of
hypertension.  History of dementia, Alzheimer's type.
History of hypothyroidism.  History of asthma; she has not
been intubated, no history of hospitalizations, or steroid
use for her asthma.  Status post cerebrovascular accident
without residual.  Peripheral vascular disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She has greater than 103 pack-year smoking
history.  Nondrinker.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

MEDICATIONS:  Lipitor 20 mg q.d., Aricept 5 mg q.d.,
Euthyroid 75 mg q.d., Pulmicort 1 q.d., Augmentin 500 mg
b.i.d., Albuterol p.r.n.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  97.4, 101, 205/76, 18,
98% on room air.  Blood pressure rechecked was 166/58.
General:  This was a pleasant but difficult to understand
white female in no acute distress.  She was oriented to
person and place but not time.  HEENT:  Unremarkable.  She
had a left carotid bruit.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation but
diminished throughout.  Heart:  Irregular rate and rhythm.
There was a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the right upper
sternal border.  Abdomen:  Nontender and nondistended.  There
was a well-healed median abdominal incision.  She has a
palpable liver edge.  Atympanic.  Rectum:  Unremarkable.
Guaiac negative.  No abdominal aortic aneurysm.  Extremities:
Pulse exam showed palpable femorals bilaterally.  The
dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial with Dopplerable signals
only bilaterally.  The left foot with diffuse streaky
erythema and edema.  There was a 1 cm diameter draining
wound.  There were small fissures along the lateral aspect of
the left foot near the heel.  There was no drainage or active
bleeding.  Neurological:  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly
intact.  Left foot motor was intact with diminished sensation
to light touch.  Extremity strength was symmetrical without
deficits.

LABORATORY DATA:  CBC with a white count of 19.2, hematocrit
40.9, differential with polys of 74, lymphs 17, no bands;
electrolytes with a BUN of 21, creatinine 1.0, potassium 4.9,
glucose 129.

Electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm with inverted Ts in
II, III, and AVF.  There were no changes from previous
electrocardiogram of [**2107-3-10**].

Chest x-ray showed no active cardiopulmonary disease.  There
was a small mediastinal irregular opacity without change from
prior chest x-ray.

Other studies included an arteriogram which showed extensive
infrarenal aortic disease, left common iliac occluded, left
internal iliac reconstructed by right collaterals from the
external iliac, left common femoral profunda with multifocal
SFA disease proximally, distal SFA and popliteal were patent,
there was disease of the tibial, proximal posterior tibial,
and peroneal arteries, the left AT is in major runoff vessel
but diseased proximally and mid portions.  Foot fed by
collaterals.  The right common iliac and external iliac
diseased.  The right common femoral profunda, SFA, popliteal
were patent.  There was two-vessel runoff via the posterior
tibial and the dorsalis pedis on the right.

A MIBI stress test on [**3-17**] showed no wall motion
abnormalities, ejection fraction was calculated at 54%.  The
ultrasound of the carotid showed left internal carotid artery
stenosis of 85-90%, right internal carotid stenosis of 60-70%
at the origins, right internal carotid artery subvalvular
stenosis of 85% 2 cm above the bifurcation.  The left
vertebral was totally occluded.  The right vertebral was
patent.

The ultrasound of the carotids showed a 70-79% bilateral
internal carotid artery stenosis with nonvisualized left
vertebral artery.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Vascular
Service.  She was placed on Metoprolol 25 mg b.i.d.,
Levofloxacin 500 q.24, and Flagyl 500 mg q.8.  Subcue Heparin
was begun for DVT prophylaxis.  She was continued on her
preadmission medications.

Dressings were normal saline wet-to-dry dressings b.i.d. with
multi-podis boot of the affected foot.  She was placed on a
house diet.  She was placed on bedrest with the leg elevated.
She was allowed to receive Percocet tablets 5/325 one-half to
one q.4-6 hours p.r.n. for pain.  Vancomycin 1 g IV q.12
hours was begun with peak and trough levels with third dose.
Lopressor was increased to 50 mg b.i.d. hospital day #2.
Vancomycin was discontinued on [**3-24**], and Oxacillin 1 g q.6
hours IV was begun for MSSA.

The patient underwent on [**3-25**] a left carotid endarterectomy.
 She tolerated the procedure well, and she was transferred to
the PACU in stable condition.  The patient was intubated,
alert, and responded to commands.  She was without chest
pain.  Her vitals signs were stable.  She was hemodynamically
stable.  Her neck dressing was clean, dry, and intact.  There
was no hematoma.  She was extubated in the PACU and
transferred to the VICU for continued monitoring and care.

Nitroglycerin was weaned off on postoperative day #1.  She
required reintubation in the PACU secondary to sedation.  She
was afebrile.  Her hematocrit was 29.6.  Her electrolytes
remained stable.  Her exam showed bilateral lung wheezing
with generalized edema.  She was diuresed.  She received
nebulizations around the clock.  Stool for C-diff was sent.
Her diet was advanced as tolerated.  Her Foley was continued
to monitor urinary output, and she remained in the VICU.  Her
Lopressor was dosed at 37.5 b.i.d. and required decreased
dosing strength secondary to bronchospasm.  Her chest x-ray
showed mildly improved interstitial edema.  Her hematocrit
remained stable.  Her wheezing was still present on
auscultation of her lungs but diminished from prior exam.  We
continued aggressive pulmonary toiletry and physical therapy.
Ambulation in the chair was begun.  Diuresis was continued.
The patient remained in the VICU.

On postoperative day #3, the patient received a total of 40
Lasix IV during the previous 24 hours.  She remained afebrile
and hemodynamically stable.  She was negative 2600.  Her
hematocrit remained stable at 33.2, although her white count
remained elevated at 24.  Chest x-ray was unremarkable.  CPKs
were obtained; total CPK peaked at 236, with an MB of 5, and
a troponin less than 0.3.

Her respiratory status seemed much improved.  She continued
on the current management.  Narcotics were discontinued.  She
remained in the VICU.  Because of the persistent white count
elevation, Infectious Disease was consulted.  Sputum culture
from [**3-28**] showed greater than 25 polys, with 40 epithelials,
but 1+ ................. consistent with oropharyngeal flora.
A chest x-ray was pending.  Urinalysis C&S was no growth.
The foot swab gram was with no polys, 2+ gram positive cocci,
pairs, chains, and clusters.  It grew out MSSA.  The blood
cultures were no growth.  The abdominal ultrasound showed
normal liver with moderate distended gallbladder with no
stones, no wall thickening, no dilated ducts.  Chest x-ray
showed resolved congestive failure with a left lower lobe
atelectasis.  The foot film showed no evidence o