Admission Date:  [**2114-4-3**]     Discharge Date:  [**2114-4-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2047-10-15**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiac Surgery

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Unstable angina.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 23**] is a 66-year-old
male with a past medical history of coronary artery disease,
type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and
hypercholesterolemia who came to [**Hospital1 190**] with unstable angina.

He was in his usual state of health and doing well with
cardiac rehabilitation until about one week ago when he had
two episodes of chest pain.  He cardiologist had increased
his Zestril from 2.5 mg to 5 mg, and his atenolol to 150 mg
p.o. q.d.  The patient continued with cardiac rehabilitation
until the a.m. of admission (which was [**2114-4-3**]) when
he had two episodes of resting angina at 1:15 a.m. and at
3 a.m., relieved by one sublingual nitroglycerin.  He was
referred to cardiac catheterization for his unstable angina.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (His past medical history includes)
1.  Coronary artery disease.  He had a cardiac
catheterization in [**2113-12-19**] with percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty and stent of the left
anterior descending artery and the first obtuse marginal.  He
had a catheterization in [**2114-1-19**] with percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty of first obtuse marginal
in-stent stenosis and subsequent brachy treatment with stents
placed distal and proximal to the first obtuse marginal.
2.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus; he was diagnosed 10 years ago.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
5.  Erectile dysfunction.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  His medications on admission
included amitriptyline 25 mg p.o. at bedtime, atenolol 150 mg
p.o. q.d., lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d., enteric-coated
aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.,
metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d., Glucovance 500 p.o. b.i.d.,
insulin 40 units q.d., Humalog sliding-scale, Claritin p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to TETRACYCLINE AND ITS
DERIVATIVES.  He is allergic to ALMONDS, PEACHES, POLLEN, and
OAK TREES.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife at home.  He
does not smoke and does not drink any alcohol.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's father died of lung cancer.
His mother had hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and died
of died of brain cancer.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  On admission he denied fevers, chills,
nausea, vomiting, dizziness, or cough.  He denied bright red
blood per rectum.  He denied melena.  He denied urinary
symptoms.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs revealed
temperature of 98, blood pressure of 140/84, pulse of 54,
respiratory rate of 18, oxygen saturation of 96% on room air.
In general, a pleasant male in no acute distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat revealed anicteric.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  First heart sound and second heart sound.  A [**1-24**]
murmur consistent with mitral regurgitation.  Pulmonary
revealed clear breath sounds anteriorly and laterally.  The
abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended, positive bowel
sounds.  Extremities revealed right groin site was clean,
dry, and intact; no bruits.  Pulses were 2+ bilaterally.
Neurologically alert and oriented times three, mentating
well.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed a white blood cell count of 8.2,
hematocrit of 38.7, platelets of 285.  INR of 1.1, PTT of 29,
PT of 12.4.  Sodium of 137, potassium of 4.5, chloride
of 100, bicarbonate of 27, blood urea nitrogen of 20,
creatinine of 1.1, blood sugar on admission was 333.
Creatine kinase was 71.  Troponin I was less than 0.3.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The patient underwent a cardiac
catheterization; please see full report for complete results.
Briefly, the patient had 50% in-stent restenosis of the left
anterior descending artery, 90% ostial stenosis of the
circumflex.  Right coronary artery with no significant
obstructive disease.

He also underwent an echocardiogram; please see full report
for complete details.  Briefly, the patient had no wall
motion abnormalities noted.  He had mild aortic stenosis
seen.  Atrial septal defect secondary to evidence of
right-to-left flow.  The atrial septal defect was small.  His
ejection fraction was 55%.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On [**4-5**], the patient was taken to the
operating room and he underwent a coronary artery bypass
graft times three; left internal mammary artery to left
anterior descending artery, saphenous vein graft to obtuse
marginal, left radial to ramus intermedius.  Please see the
Operative Note for full details.  The patient was told the
operation went well and was transferred from the operating
room to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.

At the time of transfer the patient was in normal sinus
rhythm.  He had an arterial line, a central venous pressure
right atrial catheter, two ventricular pacing wires, two
atrial pacing wires, two mediastinal chest tubes, and one
pleural chest tube.

Intravenous drips included "cariporide" (study drug),
nitroglycerin, and propofol.  Shortly after being in the
Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit, the patient was started
on Nipride for increased blood pressure and an insulin drip
for a blood sugar of greater than 194.

The patient did well in the immediate postoperative period.
He was weaned off his sedation, and he was weaned from the
ventilatory and extubated successfully.   On postoperative
day one, the patient was weaned off Nipride drip.  He
continued on the insulin drip, and he was restarted on half
of his dose of Lantus insulin.  He continued to do well.

On postoperative day two, the patient became confused.  He
was given Haldol, and after approximately 24 hours his
confusion resolved.  He was restarted on his Nipride for
hypertension.

On postoperative day three, the patient went into a rapid
atrial fibrillation which converted to normal sinus rhythm as
the amiodarone bolus and drip was started.  His temperature
spike on that day was 101.8, and he was found to have a
urinary tract infection; for which he was started on a 5-day
course of Levaquin 500 mg p.o. q.d.

On postoperative day four, the patient again went into atrial
fibrillation at a rate of 100 to 130.  He received an
additional amiodarone bolus and was started on p.o.
amiodarone.  He then converted to normal sinus rhythm.  A
heparin drip was started on that day.

On postoperative day five, the patient was transferred to
[**Hospital Ward Name 121**] Six.  By this time, the insulin drip, Nipride drip, and
amiodarone drip had been weaned off.  He was on p.o.
amiodarone, and he had been started on Imdur on [**4-7**] for
his arterial graft site.  Once transferred to the floor, the
patient's Lopressor dose and Imdur dose had been increased
due to hypertension and also frequent episodes of atrial
fibrillation.  He continued on his p.o. dose of amiodarone as
well.

On postoperative day six, the patient was noted to have
increased blood sugars and was also noted to have right arm
thrombophlebitis in the antecubital area.  The patient was
started on Ancef 1 g intravenously q.8h., and the patient's
blood sugars were being covered by a sliding-scale insulin.
Also the patient was being followed by the [**Hospital **] Clinic.  On
a daily basis the patient had  been seen by Physical Therapy.
His activity level had increased with the assistance of
Physical Therapy and the nursing staff.

The patient was due to be discharged from the hospital on
postoperative day seven after 24 hours of antibiotics for his
thrombophlebitis and reassessment of the patient's blood
sugars.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE:  Vital signs revealed
temperature of 98.1, heart rate of 98 (atrial fibrillation),
respiratory rate of 18, blood pressure of 151/67.  Blood
sugar at this time was 300.  Skin revealed right antecubital
thrombophlebitis, erythematous.  Chest incision was intact
with slight redness in the lower pole of the incision.  Left
radial artery incision was intact with slight redness with
clear drainage in the distal end.  Cardiovascular examination
revealed irregularly irregular with a blowing murmur heard
best at