Admission Date:  [**2151-10-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2151-11-4**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 79-year-old
male with known coronary artery disease, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who
presented with chest pain radiating to his back since 4 p.m.
on the day of admission.  Symptoms started while straining to
have bowel movement.  Symptoms associated with diaphoresis,
but no shortness of breath and no other associated symptoms.
He initially presented to [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital in [**Location (un) 47**]
where he was ruled out for myocardial infarction, and because
chest x-ray showed mediastinal widening a CT angiogram was
performed that suggested the ascending aortic dissection.  He
was given morphine and transferred to [**Hospital1 190**] Emergency Department.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
5.  Myocardial infarction; percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty and stent to the left anterior descending artery
in [**2149-1-20**] and percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty of the right coronary artery in [**2149-2-17**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Coumadin, amiodarone 200 mg p.o.
q.d., Imdur 100 mg p.o. q.d., Cozaar 50 mg p.o. q.a.m. and
25 mg p.o. q.p.m., atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d., aspirin 81 mg
p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  He is allergic to SULFA.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is married, lives with his wife; very
functional, still drives.  No smoking.  No alcohol.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history was noncontributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   No palpitations.  No fevers or chills.
No nausea or vomiting.  No dizziness.  No headache.  No
shortness of breath.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs were
afebrile, pulse 60, blood pressure 155/76 (which was
identical in the right and left arm), oxygen saturation 97%
on 2 liters, respiratory rate 18.  In general, he was in no
acute distress.  HEENT revealed pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Extraocular movements were intact.  The
patient was pale.  Neck with jugular venous distention
elevated 4 cm above the clavicle while at 45 degrees.  Lungs
were clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular had a
regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs.  No rubs.  There was an
S4 gallop.  The abdomen was soft, mildly distended,
nontender, positive bowel sounds.  Extremities had no edema.
Distal pulses were felt, 2+ dorsalis pedis, posterior
tibialis, femoral, and radial.  Neurologically, he was alert
and oriented times four with no focal deficits.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 13,
hematocrit 45, platelets 157.  INR was 2.5.  Troponin was
less than 0.3.  Chem-7 with sodium of 146, potassium 4.2,
chloride 104, bicarbonate 29, BUN 22, creatinine 1.5, and
glucose 101.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Thoracic CT angiogram performed at the
outside hospital showed recalcification of the aortic wall,
thickened wall to distal descending aorta and transverse
aorta with question of hematoma versus dissection.

Electrocardiogram was sinus rhythm with left axis deviation,
and LAFB.  There was left ventricular hypertrophy with poor R
wave progression as well as diffuse T waves abnormalities
felt to be nonspecific in the setting of left ventricular
hypertrophy.

IMPRESSION:  This is a 79-year-old with known coronary artery
disease, hypertension, and atrial fibrillation who presents
with aortic dissection.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient was admitted to the Coronary
Care Unit.  Intensive blood pressure control was obtained
with intravenous nitroprusside and labetalol.  The
Cardiothoracic Surgery team was consulted.

The CAT scan from the outside hospital did not demonstrate a
visible flap, so it was unclear whether the aortic dissection
involved the ascending aorta.  Therefore, a transesophageal
echocardiogram was performed.  Prior to the procedure the
patient was intubated with propofol used for sedation.

The transesophageal echocardiogram showed left ventricular
hypertrophy with good left ventricular function, thickened
AV, trivial AR, and a calcified aorta with hematoma and
dissection starting in the upper ascending aorta extending
along the arch and continuing through the descending thoracic
aorta.  Again, no flap was identified.

Spine MRA was performed to determine the extent of the
intramural hematoma.  The hematoma was seen extending from
the aortic valve involving the entire ascending aorta, arch
of the aorta, and entire descending aorta down to the level
of the renal arteries where the study stopped.  It was
postulated that this likely arose from a defect in the
descending aorta, probably a plaque rupture.  Because there
was no repairable defect seen in the ascending aorta, surgery
was not recommended by the Cardiothoracic Surgery team.

[**Hospital 49578**] medical management was continued.  He was weaned
off nitroprusside.  Intravenous labetalol was changed to p.o.
He was restarted on Losartan and atenolol and started on
amlodipine.  Furosemide was also added.

His blood pressure was difficult to control and required
escalating doses of the above.  Final hypertensive regimen is
listed below under discharge medications.  His blood pressure
on discharge was approximately 120/70.

From the standpoint of his known coronary artery disease, the
patient ruled out for myocardial infarction by enzymes.  We
continued his Zocor.  However, we discontinued his aspirin
given his known aortic defect.

On the day after admission, the patient was found to be in
atrial fibrillation although he was admitted in normal sinus
rhythm.  We continued amiodarone.  However, he remained in
atrial fibrillation.  Still, we felt it necessary to
discontinue his Coumadin given his aortic dissection.  In
addition, we reversed his anticoagulation with fresh frozen
plasma and vitamin K.  His INR at the time of discharge
was 1.1.

2.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient's aortic dissection
occurred in the context of straining to have a bowel
movement.  He has chronic constipation and takes Metamucil.
In order to attempt to prevent future straining, we
instituted an aggressive bowel regimen and this should be
continued as an outpatient.  He did have two bowel movements
during this admission without straining.

3.  HEMATOLOGY:  As mentioned above, we reversed the
patient's anticoagulation and feel that he should remain
without any anticoagulation or platelet inhibiting agents for
the time being.  His hematocrit on admission was 44, but this
decreased to 35.  It was stable at 35 for several days and
then slowly increased and was 39 on the day before discharge.
It is recommended his hematocrit be followed as an
outpatient.

4.  PULMONARY:  The patient was electively intubated for the
purpose of the transesophageal echocardiogram and was
extubated the next day once it was determined that he would
not be going to surgery.  He desaturated slightly with
increased oxygen requirements, and a chest x-ray showed
pulmonary edema.  This was treated with furosemide with
complete clinical and radiographic resolution.

Of note, the patient has documented DLCO on recent pulmonary
function tests performed at the [**Hospital6 1708**]
about six weeks ago, and this was thought to be secondary to
amiodarone use.  This is the suspected reason for his
slightly impaired oxygenation despite adequate diuresis.

5.  CODE STATUS:  He was full code.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  He was discharged to home with [**Hospital6 3429**] services to check blood pressure and
medication compliance.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Discharge condition was good.

DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP INSTRUCTIONS:  He was told to have
follow-up appointment with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 2257**] (his cardiologist) on
[**11-11**].  He should have minimal activity for the next
four weeks.  He should continue an bowel regimen and avoid
straining.  He should not plan any significant travel until
[**Month (only) 404**] of next year.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Losartan 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 2.  Labetalol 300 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 3.  Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Furosemide 20 mg p.o. q.d.
 5.  Aml