Admission Date:  [**2167-5-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2167-5-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2110-7-1**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 56-year-old male with
no past medical history brought by EMS to the Emergency
Department.  He claims he passed out while driving.  He
apparently crashed into a tree.  He admits to feeling dizzy
before passing out.  He denies any chest pain, but was tired
fast "while mowing the lawn last week and has been tired
more" over the past couple weeks.  He admits to palpitations
the night before he mowed the lawn last week.  He denies any
jaw pain.

He denies any previous history of syncope.  The patient had
eaten today and did not skip any meals.  He does not have any
PND, peripheral edema, or orthopnea.  He does not describe a
blackout associated with this event.  The patient has no pain
currently.  He was restrained in his automobile when the
accident happened.  He denies any airbag release or
windshield damage.  He has not gone a day without drinking
alcohol, he admits.  His last drink of alcohol was at noon
today.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient has not been to a doctor
in a couple of years. He is status post an appendectomy.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father had a pacemaker in his 70s, died at
age of 85.  Mother is 83 and healthy.  Siblings are in the
their 50s and healthy.  His two children are both healthy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is an electrician who lives with
his wife in [**Name (NI) 13588**].  He has a positive history of cigar
smoking.  He drinks one six pack a beer a day, if not more.
He denies any illicit drugs.  He is sexually active with his
wife.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Multivitamin.
2. Aspirin one a day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No weight loss, fever, chills, headaches,
facial droop, seizures, focal weakness, discharge, nausea, or
vomiting.  Positive fatigue as above in the history of
present illness.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature is 97.3,
heart rate 46, blood pressure 115/74, oxygen saturation is
97% on room air.  In general, he is alert and oriented times
three in no apparent distress.  [**Hospital1 1516**] pads are on him.  HEENT:
 Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Extraocular movements are
intact. Anicteric.  Neck:  No jugular venous distention,
bruits, no lymphadenopathy.  Chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally, no rales, rhonchi, or wheezing.  Cardiovascular:
Irregular and slow, S1, S2, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds, soft, nontender,
nondistended, no hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities:  No
clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Neurologic:  Alert and
oriented times three, no asterixis, nonfocal neurologic
examination.

LABORATORIES AND DIAGNOSTICS ON ADMISSION:  Complete blood
count revealed a white count of 6 with a hematocrit of 35.7,
platelet count of 265, and a MCV of 94.  Coagulation profile
revealed an INR of 1.3, PT of 13.9 and a PTT of 28.7.  Chem-7
revealed a glucose of 87, sodium of 139, potassium 3.9, a
bicarbonate of 23, chloride of 103, BUN of 13, creatinine of
0.7 with a calcium of 9.2, phosphorus of 4.6, and magnesium
of 2.  Cardiac enzymes were negative x3.

Chest x-ray revealed an enlarged heart.  CT scan of the head
revealed no hemorrhage or mass.

An electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm of 100
with escape beat at 40, complete heart block and no ST-T wave
changes.

ASSESSMENT:  This is a 56-year-old man with syncope found to
have A-V block status post a motor vehicle accident.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The following is the summary of the
[**Hospital 228**] hospital course by problems.

1. Complete heart block:  The patient remained asymptomatic
during his hospital stay.  On the day of admission, the
patient underwent a right IJ central line placement so that a
temporary pacer wire could be inserted into his right
ventricle.  [**Hospital1 1516**] pads and an external pacer were maintained
on the patient until a permanent pacemaker was placed the
following day.  The patient underwent placement of a DDD
pacemaker without any complication.  The following settings
were made:  A lead sensing P greater than 2.8 millivolts,
threshold less than 0.5 volts at 0.5 milliseconds.  Impedance
579 oms.  V lead:  Sensing R of [**12-12**] millivolts, threshold 1
volt at 0.5 milliseconds, impedance 625 oms.

The patient was treated with Vancomycin 1 gram x3 to
prophylax against possible infection.  Lyme serologies were
checked and were negative.  The TSH was checked, and it was
normal.  An echocardiogram was checked and revealed evidence
of a dilated cardiomyopathy, but no evidence of an
infiltrative process.  The findings of this echocardiogram
are further commented on in the next section.

2. Dilated cardiomyopathy:  The patient was found to have a
dilated cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 15% on
echocardiogram.  The echocardiogram also revealed left atrial
elongation, moderate left ventricular dilation, septal
inferior, anterior, and apical akinesis with lateral
hypokinesis, a left ventricular thrombus could not be
excluded, ventricular free wall motion was relatively
preserved.  The aortic root was mildly dilated, A-V leaflets
were normal, and V leaflets were normal, and there was
trivial tricuspid regurgitation, and no effusion.

As a result, the patient was started on carvedilol 3.125 mg
po bid and low dose captopril which was later changed to
lisinopril 5 mg po q day.  The patient underwent a cardiac
catheterization to rule out ischemic cardiomyopathy.  His
coronary arteries were without significant lesions.  The
patient had no complications from his cardiac
catheterization.

3. Status post motor vehicle collision:  The patient
underwent a CT scan which revealed no abnormalities in his
head.  His neurologic status remained stable throughout his
hospital stay.

4. Alcohol abuse:  The patient was given Valium 10 mg po q8h
for the first 24 hour to prophylaxis against alcohol
withdrawal.  His LFTs and pancreatic enzymes were checked,
and these were not grossly abnormal.  He was also written for
prn Ativan as per CIWA scale, but this was not needed.

5. Coronary artery disease:  Patient had a lipid profile
which revealed a HDL of 106, LDL of 64, total cholesterol of
182.  As a result of this and his cardiac catheterization
results, the patient was continued on his aspirin.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Home.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Carvedilol 3.125 mg po q day.
2. Lisinopril 5 mg po q day.

FOLLOW-UP PLANS:
1. The patient is to followup with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] at [**Hospital 191**] Clinic
in the next 2-4 weeks to see if his heart failure regimen
could be titrated up.  At that time, we will also perform an
initial PCP visit and health maintenance screening.
2. The patient was given phone numbers for the Congestive
Heart Failure Clinic and Alcoholics Anomynous, and was asked
to followup with both so that his alcoholic cardiomyopathy
can be managed more effectively.
3. The patient is to followup with Electrophysiology in the
Device Clinic.  Moreover, it should be kept in mind that the
patient might likely need a conversion to a biventricular
assist device in the future.
4. Patient was strongly encouraged to stop drinking, and the
cardiac risks related to this were fully explained.



                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 870**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5219**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1595**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2167-5-16**]  14:02
T:  [**2167-5-21**]  07:23
JOB#:  [**Job Number 103704**]
