Admission Date:  [**2138-11-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2138-11-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2072-5-5**]     Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Fever.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
female with a history of multiple myeloma recently admitted
to [**Hospital1 69**] with
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus line infection.
She returns with fever since the night prior to admission to
103, positive cough, sore throat, no shortness of breath or
chest pain, makes very little urine, no nausea, vomiting or
diarrhea, positive fevers and chills.  She also reports a
skin lesion on her left lower extremity x 3 days.  Prior to
admission she was otherwise in her usual state of health
until the day prior to admission.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Multiple myeloma diagnosed in [**2135**];
status post VAD x 4; status post autologous bone marrow
transplant.  2. Recurrent streptococcus infections on
penicillin prophylaxis.  3. Total abdominal hysterectomy and
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.  4. Status post
appendectomy.  5. Status post tonsillectomy.  6. Perforated
tympanic membrane.  7. Carpal tunnel syndrome.  8. Recently
discharged from [**Hospital1 69**] after
admission for a bleeding dialysis catheter which was placed
by interventional radiology and subsequently developed a
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus line infection
and has been on vancomycin since then.  9. End-stage renal
disease on dialysis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Vancomycin dosed at dialysis;
Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.; Tums 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Renagel;
Ambien 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.; penicillin V 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  Sulfa.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone; no alcohol or
tobacco use.  She is a retired math teacher.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Prostate cancer in her father.  Hypertension
and breast cancer in her mother.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  As per history of present illness.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission her blood pressure was
102/50, pulse 115, respiratory rate 16, O2 saturation 97% on
two liters, temperature 101.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat examination showed no jugular venous distension, dry
mucous membranes with oral petechiae.  Cardiovascular
examination showed a regular rate and rhythm, slightly
tachycardic, normal S1 and S2, positive S4.  Lungs had
bibasilar crackles with left chest field positive for
crackles and dullness to percussion.  The abdomen was soft,
nontender and nondistended with normal active bowel sounds.
Extremities were warm with no edema, positive multiple
bruises and a 3 x 2 cm erythematous nonpruritic plaque with
central clearing on the left lower extremity.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission the white blood cell count was
1.9, hematocrit 24.1, platelet count 19, granulocytes 1,100,
partial thromboplastin time 33.6, INR 1.3.  Sodium was 127,
potassium 4.3, chloride 94, bicarbonate 22, BUN 33,
creatinine [**5-24**].

Chest x-ray showed left lower lobe superior portion with
evidence of consolidation.

IMPRESSION:  The patient is a 66-year-old female with
multiple myeloma, end-stage renal disease,
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus line infection
admitted for treatment of pneumonia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1. Infectious disease:  The patient is
chronically receiving doses of IVIG as an outpatient due to
poor immune response secondary to the multiple myeloma.  She
was admitted with no evidence of neutropenia, however was
given antibiotic coverage in the Emergency Department with
ceftriaxone and gentamicin which was changed to levofloxacin
for renal dosing with 250 mg q.o.d.  The day following the
patient's admission she began to spike a fever once again,
however she was feeling significantly better and her
breathing was substantially better.

The following day she started to develop some mild
respiratory distress.  Chest x-ray was consistent with
worsening pneumonia now with bilateral infiltrates as well as
some overlying pulmonary edema.  IVIG was administered to
increase her immune globulin and her immune response to the
pneumonia.

2. Renal:  The patient has chronic renal failure on
hemodialysis and was dialyzed the Monday following the first
day of her admission.  Following the administration of IVIG
the patient began to have increasing respiratory distress
likely due in part to the worsening pneumonia, however also
likely due to worsening pulmonary edema due to fluid
overload.  The patient was emergently dialyzed on the night
of [**2138-11-10**] and transferred to the medical intensive care
unit for further management of her volume status as well as
respiratory status.  The medical intensive care unit course
will be dictated by [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 7779**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7775**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 4630**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2138-11-19**]  14:06
T:  [**2138-11-21**]  08:35
JOB#:  [**Job Number 7785**]
