Admission Date:  [**2194-1-21**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2164-5-10**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 19280**] is a 29 year old
white male admitted on [**2194-1-21**] with increased
abdominal pain and associated nausea and vomiting.  The
patient has a long history of alcohol abuse, pancreatitis,
status post recent alcohol binge with 12 to 15 beers per day
with occasional shots of alcohol.  The patient's last drink
was three days ago by report.  The patient was transferred to
the Medical Intensive Care Unit service from the floor with
clinical and CT evidence of pancreatitis with no fluid
collection.  The patient was initially on nothing by mouth
and given aggressive fluid resuscitation on the floor, but
became hypoxic on [**2194-1-22**] and warranted Medical
Intensive Care Unit evaluation.  We were called to see the
patient when he was hypoxic and tachycardiac and
normotensive.  The patient was started on ampicillin,
gentamicin and Flagyl in the Emergency Room.  The patient has
a history of adult respiratory distress syndrome in the
setting of pancreatitis.

At baseline, the patient is seen in pain clinic for chronic
abdominal pain.  He reports that he awoke on [**2194-1-20**]
with abdominal pain that was different from his chronic pain.
He came to the Emergency Room and reported episodes of nausea
and vomiting.  He denied melena, bright red blood per rectum
or hematuria.  The patient states he has had no
hallucinations.  He feels tremulous and is diaphoretic.  He
denies palpitations and has had no bowel movement since two
days prior to admission.  The patient denies orthopnea or
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Alcoholic pancreatitis with
several admissions for the above; history of adult
respiratory distress syndrome in the setting of pancreatitis,
for which he was treated in the Surgical Intensive Care Unit
approximately two years ago; at that time, the patient had a
splenic hematoma and underwent a splenectomy with a distal
pancreatectomy.  2.  History of gastroesophageal reflux
disease.  3.  History of hypertension.  4.  Sleep apnea.  5.
Hypercholesterolemia.  6.  Chronic pain in left side of
abdomen and left shoulder, seen in pain clinic, on Oxycontin
30 mg twice a day.  7. Alcohol withdrawal; long history of
alcohol abuse and has been admitted to the hospital several
times for delirium tremens; patient reports approximately two
to three episodes of intubation in the Intensive Care Unit in
the setting of alcohol withdrawal.  8.  Right upper quadrant
abscess, status post percutaneous catheter drainage in [**2192-5-5**].  9.  Distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy, as above.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Oxycontin 30 mg p.o.b.i.d.,
albuterol meter dose inhaler p.r.n.; on transfer to Medical
Intensive Care Unit, patient was on Dilaudid 2 to 4 mg
i.v.q.4-6h.p.r.n., nicotine patch, Valium, thiamine 100 mg
p.o.q.d., folate 1 mg p.o.q.d. and Zantac.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has been abusing alcohol since
the age of 15 or 16.  He has a history of detoxification
times one which was unsuccessful.  He denies intravenous drug
use but does have a 17 pack year smoking history.  He has no
history of illicit drug use.  He is unemployed and currently
lives with his mother.

FAMILY HISTORY:  There is a history of alcoholism in the
patient's father.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission to
the Intensive Care Unit revealed a temperature of 101.4,
pulse 74 to 164, respiratory rate 20 to 28, blood pressure
108 to 132/70 to 100 and oxygen saturation 90% in room air.
General:  Pleasant male with mild abdominal distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Normocephalic, atraumatic,
pinpoint pupils, anicteric sclerae, oropharynx clear, no
jaundice.  Cardiovascular:  Tachycardiac, no murmur, rub or
gallop.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen:
Distended with epigastric to periumbilical pain, hepatomegaly
with liver approximately 3 to 4 cm below costal margin.
Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Skin:  Spider
angiomata on anterior chest.  Neurologic examination:  Alert
and oriented times three, not tremulous, 2+ reflexes
throughout, motor [**5-10**] in bilateral upper and lower
extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  At the time of transfer, white blood cell
count was 18.1, hematocrit 47.3, platelet count 308,000,
sodium 135, potassium 3.5, chloride 96, bicarbonate 16, BUN
9, creatinine 0.5, glucose 100, amylase 405, lipase 1,685;
white blood cell count later in the day had increased to 23
with 82% neutrophils, 3% bands, 12% lymphocytes and 3%
monocytes.  Amylase was subsequently found to be 212 with a
lipase of 522.  Electrocardiogram at the time of transfer:
Sinus rhythm at 159 with no ischemic changes; no change from
[**2192-4-12**], rate 142, QRS 471 at this time.

RADIOLOGIC DATA:  Right upper quadrant ultrasound:  Fatty
infiltration of the liver.  Abdominal CT on [**2194-1-21**]:
Pancreatitis, no pseudocyst or fluid collection; status post
partial pancreatectomy and splenectomy; fatty liver
infiltration, inflammation of duodenum near the pancreatic
head.  Chest x-ray:  Residual minor atelectasis, right lower
lung zone greater than left lower lung zone.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was subsequently transferred to
the Medical Intensive Care Unit for further evaluation and
treatment.  At that time of transfer, he was on two liters of
nasal cannula and was moderately agitated with abdominal
pain.

1.  Pancreatitis:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit with acute alcoholic pancreatitis.  His
amylase and lipase at the time of transfer were 212 and 522
respectively.  His amylase went from 212 down to 26 on
[**2194-2-3**] with lipase going from 1,620 at the time of
admission to 522 at the time of transfer to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit, 45 on [**2194-1-28**] to 28 on [**2194-2-3**].  The patient's ALT remained in the 20 to 60 range
with an AST in the same range.  His alkaline phosphatase was
102 at the time of admission and 373 on [**2194-2-2**].
Bilirubin was stable at 0.3 to 0.7.

The patient was treated with aggressive fluid hydration in
the setting of acute pancreatitis.  He was given fluid
boluses of 250 to 500 cc initially and was put on normal
saline at 250 cc/hour for the first 12 to 24 hours.  The
patient ended up receiving a large normal saline load of
approximately 16 liters during the hospitalization.  The
patient continued to have temperatures throughout the
hospitalization, with a maximum temperature of 104.2 on
several occasions.  The patient is currently febrile to 102.
We have done multiple blood, urine and sputum cultures and
all cultures have remained negative.  His sputum culture on
[**2194-1-27**] grew two colonies of coagulase positive
Staphylococcus aureus, which was not aggressively treated.
At this point, an infectious source of his fevers is thought
to be unlikely as the patient has persistently had culture
negative samples.  The patient is thought to have elevated
temperatures in the setting of severe acute pancreatitis and
cytokine release.

At the beginning of the hospitalization, the patient became
progressively more hypotensive.  He was on a propofol and
Ativan drip at this time.  On [**2194-1-26**], the patient
was started on Neo-Synephrine as his blood pressure had
dipped down in the high 70s to low 80s systolic and he was
found to be unresponsive to fluid boluses.  The patient was
on 26.7 of Neo-Synephrine at this time.  This was
subsequently weaned off on [**2194-1-27**] and the patient
did not require any further pressors throughout the
hospitalization.

The patient continued to be aggressively fluid resuscitated
for the first seven to days of the hospitalization.  He
underwent a repeat abdominal CT on [**2194-1-29**] due to
the fact that the patient had been hypotensive, had evidence
of adult respiratory distress syndrome on chest x-ray and, by
physical examination and ventilator numbers was not making
any progress.  Furthermore, the patient continued to be
febrile despite multiple negative cultures.  A C