Admission Date:  [**2172-7-6**]     Discharge Date:  [**2172-7-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2096-4-25**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery Service

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 75-year-old
gentleman who is a patient of Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 47696**] who was
transferred in from [**Hospital3 3583**] status post a myocardial
infarction for cardiac catheterization.  He was seen by
Cardiology on admission.

He was referred to Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] and was seen on [**7-6**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Hypertension.
 2.  Myocardial infarction.
 3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 4.  Myocardial infarction in [**2158**].
 5.  Status post cancer and radiation therapy to the mouth.
 6.  Grave's disease with right eye diplopia.
 7.  Transient ischemic attack in [**2156**].
 8.  Syncope.
 9.  Glaucoma.
10.  Left carotid endarterectomy in [**2170**].
11.  Transurethral resection of prostate.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Medications on admission were as
follows)
 1.  Plavix 75 mg p.o. once per day
 2.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. once per day.
 3.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. twice per day.
 4.  Lisinopril 5 mg p.o. once per day.
 6.  Synthroid 0.025 mg p.o. once per day
 7.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. once per day.
 8.  Flonase 2 puffs as needed.
 9.  Xalatan eyedrops once per day.
10.  Trusopt one drop three times per day to both eyes.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING: Cardiac catheterization showed
left vein and 3-vessel disease with an ejection fraction of
45%.

Cardiac catheterization today just showed left vein 60% left
anterior descending artery, 60% to 80% first diagonal, 100%
left circumflex, and 90% ostial right coronary artery.

His preoperative chest x-ray showed no acute cardiopulmonary
disease.

On [**7-7**], he had ultrasounds done which showed a right
internal carotid stenosis of 60% to 69%, a left internal
carotid stenosis of less than 40%.  Please refer to the final
dictated report.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On examination, blood
pressure was 166/77, oxygen saturation was 100% on room air,
respiratory rate was 18, and heart rate was 55.  His left eye
pupil appeared larger but both were reactive.  Sclerae were
anicteric.  He had well-healed scars bilaterally on his neck.
His lungs were clear.  His heart was regular in rate and
rhythm.  Normal first heart sounds and second heart sounds.
No murmurs.  His abdominal examination was benign with good
bowel sounds and no hepatosplenomegaly.  His extremities were
warm and well perfused with no cyanosis, clubbing, or edema,
or varicosities.  He had good peripheral pulses throughout.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  His creatine
kinase peaked at [**Hospital3 3583**] at 384 with a troponin of
8.35.  He had Q waves in his inferior leads.   His
preoperative laboratories were as follows; white blood cell
count was 5.8, hematocrit was 36.5, and platelet count was
162,000.  Prothrombin time was 13.1, partial thromboplastin
time was 40.9, and INR was 1.1.  Sodium was 134, potassium
was 3.9, chloride was 104, bicarbonate was 22, blood urea
nitrogen was 22, creatinine was 0.9, and blood glucose was
87.  ALT was 22, AST was 28, alkaline phosphatase was 64,
total bilirubin was 0.5, and albumin was 3.7.  Creatine
kinase was 270 followed by 320.  Troponin was 8.3.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   Plavix was placed on hold.  On [**8-3**], he
underwent coronary artery bypass graft times four with a left
internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending
artery, saphenous vein graft to posterior descending artery,
saphenous vein graft from obtuse marginal to diagonal.

Coming off bypass, the patient experienced right ventricular
failure and went back on bypass with drug manipulations.
Additional echocardiography showed an ejection fraction still
approximately 35% to 40% with moderate mitral regurgitation,
moderate aortic insufficiency, and moderate tricuspid
regurgitation and aortic regurgitation.  Intra-aortic balloon
pump was still in good position which had been placed.

The patient went back on bypass a third time for increased
right ventricular failure and increasingly unstable vital
signs.  The patient was placed on right heart bypass with
cannulas in the right atrium and pulmonary artery going into
the left pulmonary artery.  This was confirmed by an
echocardiogram.

The patient was brought to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care
Unit with a right heart bypass cannulation in place.  The
patient was profoundly hypoxic and acidotic.  He was
unresponsive on examination and was successfully sedated.  He
was on the following drips:  Amiodarone at 1, dobutamine at
2.5, epinephrine at 0.3, and Levophed at 0.8, lidocaine at 2,
and pitressin at 0.2.  His heart rate was 98.  He was
atrially paced with a blood pressure of 93/41.  Intra-aortic
balloon pump was at 1:1.  He was fully supported by the
ventilator with a blood gas of 7.27/35/41/17/-9.  Temperature
maximum was 93.9.  Hematocrit was 20.8.  He was on an insulin
drip also.  He remained fully on Swan-Ganz catheter and
monitored with maximum pressors and inotropic support.  He
was critically hypoxic with instructions to do no
cardiopulmonary resuscitation but to defibrillate only.

The patient was seen by a Renal fellow on [**7-8**].  Please
note to refer to the patient's Operative Note.  In the
operating room, the patient coded and was asystolic on the
way out of the operating room and then went back to the
operating room on bypass times three.  That was when the
intra-aortic balloon pump was placed and the right
ventricular assist device was placed, as the right
ventricular wall was not moving.  In addition, to the
saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery.  Please
refer to Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 15933**] Operative Report.

It was the impression of the Renal consultation that the
patient's urine output had slowly resumed.  His blood
pressure had increased to a mean arterial pressure of greater
than 70, but the prognosis was very poor.  They recommended
continuous venovenous hemofiltration for fluid removal and
oxygenation to help improve it, but the patient was clearly
hypoxic and had cardiogenic shock.  He also had lactic
acidosis and congestive heart failure.  The hypernatremia was
likely secondary to multiple ampules of bicarbonate given
during the operation.  The left femoral venous dialysis was
placed under sterile conditions in the Intensive Care Unit on
[**7-8**] in preparation for continuous venovenous
hemofiltration.

The patient was seen again the next morning by the Renal
Service with the right ventricular assist device still in
place and massive volume overload after DOR noted on maximal
ventilatory support with acute renal failure secondary to the
prolong hypertension.  The right ventricular assist device
remained in place at that time.  Blood pressure dropped with
the fluid removal.

On postoperative day two, the pressors were slowly weaned.
The patient received two units of packed red blood cells, and
his positive end-expiratory pressure was increased.  The
patient was unresponsive with no movement.  The patient was
on a Levophed drip, amiodarone drip, epinephrine drip, and
Milrinone, as well as dobutamine drip, lidocaine drip, as
well as pitressin drip.  Heart rate was 76, A-paced.  Blood
pressure was 118/48.  Blood gas that morning was
7.47/26/63/19/-2 with a temperature maximum of 99.5.  White
blood cell count was 16.7.  Hematocrit was 45.  Platelet
count was 121.  Sodium was 132, potassium was 4.6, blood urea
nitrogen was 22, creatinine was 2.3, chloride was 97,
bicarbonate was 18, and blood glucose was 104.  The patient
was continued on propofol sedation.  Lidocaine was decreased
to 1.  The patient was continued on perioperative vancomycin.
Levofloxacin was also added in.  The patient remained
critically ill in the Intensive Care Unit.  The patient
continued to have low-flows and low blood pressures on his
right ventricular assist device with coarse breath sounds.
He was sedated and intubated with massive anasarca.  His
extremities appeared to have anasarca emboli and were warm.
Hi