Admission Date:  [**2160-8-23**]              Discharge Date:   [**2160-9-9**]

Date of Birth:  [**2082-3-31**]             Sex:   M

Service: NEUROLOGY

Allergies:
Patient recorded as having No Known Allergies to Drugs

Attending:[**First Name3 (LF) 2569**]
Chief Complaint:
Dizziness

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Left suboccipital craniotomy
Right external ventricular drain
Tracheostomy
PEG


History of Present Illness:
78yo Chinese-speaking M h/o HTN, DM2, CRI and smoking
presented with N/V and complaining of dizziness on [**8-23**]. He was
well upon going to bed [**8-22**] but awoke on [**8-23**] at 2am complaining
that he did not feel well. At 3:30am, he tried to go to the BR
but fell onto his knees. He was then helped back to bed but then
experienced N/V and tinnitus in both ears and vertigo. He was
brought to the ED in the morning when symptoms persisted when
sitting up or standing.

In the ED, his V/S were 97.2 120 (in new onset afib) 150/70 10
95% ra. Neuro exam was "non-focal" and CT of the head was
negative for acute bleed or signs of infarction and the patient
was admitted to medicine for syncope workup. The morning of
[**8-24**],
the patient vomited again and was somnolent, per the hospitalist
note. He opened his eyes to his daughter, denied dizziness,
headache or CP but was not sure of the year and he was
hypertensive. His neuro exam at this time by medicine was
"somnolent. Opens eyes to daughter command. Follows commands.
With symmetric grip strength. Toes down bilaterally. Moves all
4.
Can't identify year or week." He was sent for MRI with and
without gadolinium to r/o posterior circulation stroke. When
this
showed a cerebellar infarct, neurology consult was called.

Exam at this time showed the patient unable to be aroused with
voice or sternal rub. He opened his eyes for 4-5 seconds to
nailbed pressure to his toes but he did not follow commands.
With
coaxing from his wife, he squeezed her hand on the left but then
let go. Pupils were 2->1.5mm bilaterally but sluggish. Gaze was
midline. He had no blink to threat and oculocephalics were
unable
to be assessed. Corneal reflexes were intact b/l. He had
preferential turning of the head to the right. Tongue was
midline. On motor exam, his right leg was hypotonic and
externally rotated. His right arm was hypotonic and the left was
slightly anti-gravity. Both arms localized to pain, L>R. His
legs
withdrew to pain, again L>R. He had a babinski on the R but not
on the left. He was unable to walk.

After neuro evaluation, stat neurosurgery consult was called.
The
patient was sent for stat CT. While there, around 9:30pm, while
being seen with the neurosurgery team, the ED attending was
called to the resuscitation room by the neurosurgery team after
the patient vomited in the scanner and had "decreased MS" since.
CT showed large evolving L cerebellar infarct and potential
brainstem infarction, with mass effect on the brainstem and
likely cerebellar herniation. The patient was intubated for
airway protection, confirmed by postintubation CXR, and admitted
to the SICU.

Overnight, the patient underwent emergent left suboccipital
craniotomy with placement of EVD on the right. Postop CT showed
postsurgical pneumocephalus in the left cerebellum, possible
left
mass effect, s/p R EVD with new right lateral ventricle
hemorrhage. The patient was transferred back to the SICU and
placed on mannitol, propofol gtt, nicardipine gtt, nitroglycerin
gtt and in the morning of [**8-25**], started on dexamethasone 4mg IV
q6. He is now transferred to our care from the neurosurgery
service.


Past Medical History:
DM2 (HgbA1c 6.0% [**6-/2160**])
HTN
Tobacco abuse
CRI (followed by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], b/l Cre 1.5)
gout
cataracts
glaucoma
s/p left inguinal hernia repair
h/o TB (while in [**Country 651**] in his 30's, denies ever being treated)

Social History:
Retired machinist, moved to the United States 13 years ago from
[**Country 651**].  He
lives with his wife. His daughter lives nearby. Long-time
smoker. He denies any alcohol or illicit drug use.

Family History:
deferred

Physical Exam:
Opens eyes to voice. Blinks to threat on the left. Pupils
reactive. Moves left side spontaneously. Trace but inconsistent
movement of right side. Does not follow commands.

Pertinent Results:
[**2160-9-8**] 04:08AM BLOOD PT-18.7* PTT-53.5* INR(PT)-1.8*

Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to medicine after a possible syncopal
episode, with dizziness and vomiting. Head CT in the ED was
negative. He was found to be in atrial fibrillation with RVR and
placed on metoprolol for rate control.

The morning of [**8-24**],the patient vomited again and was somnolent,
per the hospitalist
note. He opened his eyes to his daughter, denied
dizziness,headache or CP but was not sure of the year and he was
hypertensive. His neuro exam at this time by medicine was
"somnolent. Opens eyes to daughter command. Follows commands.
With symmetric grip strength. Toes down bilaterally. Moves all
4.
Can't identify year or week." A posterior circulation stroke was
considered by the medicine team and a stat neurology consult was
called when MRI revealed "Multifocal areas of acute infarction
most pronounced in the left superior cerebellar territory
suggesting an embolic source to the basilar artery".

Exam at this time showed the patient unable to be aroused with
voice or sternal rub. He opened his eyes for 4-5 seconds to
nailbed pressure to his toes but he did not follow commands.
With
coaxing from his wife, he squeezed her hand on the left but then
let go. Pupils were 2->1.5mm bilaterally but sluggish. Gaze was
midline. He had no blink to threat and oculocephalics were
unable
to be assessed. Corneal reflexes were intact b/l. He had
preferential turning of the head to the right. Tongue was
midline. On motor exam, his right leg was hypotonic and
externally rotated. His right arm was hypotonic and the left was
slightly anti-gravity. Both arms localized to pain, L>R. His
legs
withdrew to pain, again L>R. He had a babinski on the R but not
on the left. He was unable to walk.

After neuro evaluation, stat neurosurgery consult was called.
The
patient was sent for stat CT/CTA. While there, around 9:30pm,
while
being seen with the neurosurgery team, the ED attending was
called to the resuscitation room by the neurosurgery team after
the patient vomited in the scanner and had "decreased MS" since.
CT showed large evolving L cerebellar infarct and potential
brainstem infarction, with mass effect on the brainstem and
likely cerebellar herniation. The patient was intubated for
airway protection, confirmed by postintubation CXR, and admitted
to the SICU. CTA was unable to be obtained.

Postoperatively, the patient continued ICU care, with intubation
and was placed briefly on dexamethasone, and he was then
transferred back to the neurology service. His blood pressure
was allowed to autoregulate, to allow for adequate perfusion of
the brain, with the hope of reducing damage to any surrounding
zone of ischemia. He was placed on mannitol and dexamethasone
was discontinued. Postop CT showed: "1) S/p left suboccipital
craniotomy, with expected postoperative change in the left
cerebellar hemisphere in the region of evolving infarct.
Differences in obliquity and positioning compared to the
preoperative scan make assessment for interval change in mass
effect and potential cerebellar herniation difficult. 2)
Interval placement of right intraventricular catheter, with
layering hemorrhage within the right lateral ventricle and small
amount of hemorrhage along the entry tract"

Repeat MRI/A on [**8-25**] showed "A large left PCA infarct as well as
an acute infarct within the left cerebral peduncle. Relating to
the left PCA infarct, there are scattered infarcts within the
left thalamus.Interval development of intraparenchymal and
intraventricular blood, some of which relates to the recent
surgeries.

MRA: Nonvisualization of the left posterior cerebral artery
consistent with the acute left posterior cerebral artery
infarct. Small basilar artery. Poor visualization of the distal
V4 segment of the left vertebral artery."

From the time of his ad