Admission Date:  [**2170-10-9**]       Discharge Date:  [**2170-10-18**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 81-year-old
female with coronary artery disease.  The patient is status
post cardiac catheterization during [**2170-8-31**] admission
for right femoral-popliteal bypass when the patient developed
an episode of chest pain while at dialysis.  She went to
catheterization during which a cypher stent was placed in her
right coronary artery.

The patient had no further cardiac symptoms following this
until four days prior to her current admission when she
developed an episode of chest pain.  The patient was at
dialysis and was briefly hypotensive, requiring cessation of
dialysis.  Several hours following this she developed chest
pain which was accompanied by weakness and lethargy.  Her
weakness continued over the next few days.  She also noted
dyspnea with walking and presented to the Emergency
Department for further evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Hypertension.
 2.  Depression.
 3.  End-stage renal disease (on hemodialysis).
 4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 5.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
 6.  History of transient ischemic attack.
 7.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction.
 8.  Glaucoma.
 9.  Cataracts.
10.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post right
femoral-popliteal bypass; status post left femoral-tibial
bypass graft; status post right coronary artery stent.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Home medications included aspirin,
Plavix, Pravastatin, captopril, Prilosec, Lopressor, Renagel,
Vicodin, insulin, and eyedrops.

ALLERGIES:


PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs revealed
the patient's temperature was 96.7 degrees Fahrenheit, her
blood pressure was 142/38, her heart rate was 84, and her
respiratory rate was 23.  In general, the patient was a pale
elderly female in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose,
and throat examination revealed surgical pupils.  Left pupil
was dilated and nonreactive.  The right pupil was minimally
reactive; thought from surgical.  Extraocular movements were
intact.  The oropharynx was clear.  The mucous membranes were
dry.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate.
Normal first heart sounds and second heart sounds.  There was
a holosystolic murmur heard loudest at the apex.  The lungs
were clear to auscultation anteriorly.  The abdominal
examination revealed positive bowel sounds.  The abdomen was
soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Extremity examination
revealed pulses were dopplerable.  The right was bandaged.
No edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
revealed the patient's white blood cell count was 11.6, her
hematocrit was 28.6, and her platelets were 245.  Her sodium
was 142, potassium was 3.9, chloride was 102, bicarbonate was
28, blood urea nitrogen was 41, creatinine was 4.6, and blood
glucose was 100.  Creatine kinase was 179, CK/MB was 20, MB
index was 11.2, and troponin was 5.95.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed a
normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 70, left ventricular
hypertrophy.  There were 1-mm to 2-mm ST elevations in leads
II, III, and aVF.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

 1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  Coronaries:  Given
electrocardiogram changes and cardiac history, the patient
went to the Catheterization Laboratory upon arrival to the
Emergency Department.

Cardiac catheterization showed a thrombus in her proximal
right coronary artery stent.  During catheterization, this
was successfully re-stented with a 3.5-mm X 23-mm Hepacoat
stent.  The catheterization also showed elevated filling
pressures with an elevated wedge pressure.

The patient was transiently hypotensive during cardiac
catheterization and briefly required a dopamine drip, but her
procedure was otherwise uncomplicated.

The patient was then transferred to the Coronary Care Unit
for close monitoring.  She was loaded on Plavix and received
Integrilin for 18 hours.  She was continued on a daily
regimen of aspirin, Plavix, and statin.  She was heparinized
until an echocardiogram was obtained.  She was started back
on a beta blocker and ACE inhibitor which were titrated up
throughout her hospitalization.  The patient developed a
cough with the ACE inhibitor and was instead switched to an
angiotensin receptor blocker.

(b)  Pump:  The patient had a post myocardial infarction
echocardiogram which showed an ejection fraction of 40%.  She
was put back on an ACE inhibitor for afterload reduction
which was then changed over to an angiotensin receptor
blocker as she developed a cough.  She received regular
hemodialysis for management of her volume status.

(c)  Rhythm:  The patient was monitored on telemetry
throughout her hospitalization.  She did not have any
arrhythmia complications.

(d)  Valves:  The patient was admitted with a history of
mitral regurgitation.  Her post myocardial infarction
echocardiogram showed 2+ mitral regurgitation.  She was
continued on an ACE inhibitor.

 2.  PULMONARY ISSUES:   No active issues.  The patient
saturated well on room air throughout her hospitalization.

 3.  RENAL ISSUES:  The patient with end-stage renal disease
(on hemodialysis).  She was followed by the Renal Service
throughout her hospitalization and continued to receive
dialysis three times per week (per her regular schedule).
She was also continued on Renagel for her elevated phosphate.

 4.  ENDOCRINE ISSUES:  The patient with a history a type 2
diabetes mellitus.  She was continued on NPH insulin with
regular insulin supplementation at meals (per her home
regimen).

 5.  PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient was
status post a right femoral-popliteal bypass.  He wound was
monitored and dressed throughout her hospitalization.  Her
surgical followup was verified.

 6.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION ISSUES:  The patient was
placed on a cardiac, diabetic, American Diabetes Association
diet which she tolerated well.  Her electrolytes were
monitored.

 7.  OPHTHALMOLOGIC ISSUES:  The patient with a history of
glaucoma and cataracts.  The patient was continued on her
glaucoma eyedrops (per her home regimen).

 8.  NEUROLOGIC ISSUES:  The patient was admitted with
complaints of fatigue and somnolence.  These symptoms quickly
resolved following cardiac catheterization and were thought
to be due to her cardiac problems.  She had a
thyroid-stimulating hormone sent which was normal.  She did
not have any further episodes of lethargy or other
neurological issues during her hospitalization.

 9.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient with urinalysis
showing asymptomatic bacteruria.  Her Foley catheter was
removed, and she remained asymptomatic.  Per consultation
with the Renal Service, the patient was not treated for her
asymptomatic bacteruria.

10.  PROPHYLAXIS ISSUES:  Proton pump inhibitor for
gastrointestinal prophylaxis and subcutaneous heparin for
deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis.  Colace and Senna were
given for a bowel regimen.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:   Discharge status was to rehabilitation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Right coronary artery stent thrombosis with successful
restenting of thrombosed stent.
2.  End-stage renal disease (on hemodialysis).
3.  Non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
4.  Urinary tract infection.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Losartan 25 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Heparin 5000 units subcutaneously q.12h.
 3.  Metoprolol 50 mg by mouth twice per day.
 4.  Renagel 800 mg by mouth three times per day.
 5.  Pantoprazole 40 mg by mouth q.24h.
 6.  Nephrocaps one tablet by mouth once per day.
 7.  Pramipexole 0.25 mg by mouth at hour of sleep.
 8.  Timolol 0.5% ophthalmologic eyedrops one drop both eyes
twice per day.
 9.  Prednisolone 1% ophthalmologic suspension one drop both
eyes twice per day.
10.  Pilocarpine 2% one drop both eyes at hour of sleep.
11.  Levobunolol 0.5% one drop both eyes at hour of sleep.
12.  Dorzolamide 2%/Timolol 0.5% one drop twice per day (to
right eye only).
13.  Brimonidine tartrate 0.15% ophthalmologic eyedrops q.8h.
14.  Quinine sulfate 325 mg by mouth every 