Admission Date:  [**2169-6-26**]       Discharge Date:  [**2169-7-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2108-3-31**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 61-year-old
genetic male, status post sex change operation, with a past
medical history of asthma, who has been intubated once
before, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, who
complained of an upper respiratory infection for two days
prior to admission.  She was complaining of increased
shortness of breath, took three nebulizers on her own before
calling the ambulance.  She also started a prednisone taper
one day prior to admission.  She complained of productive
white sputum.  After not improving with this self-treatment,
she called an ambulance and was given nebulizers x 3 by the
EMTs.  Her saturations at that time were 88 to 91%.  She
denied any chest pain, palpitations, nausea, vomiting, or
lightheadedness.  She was able to talk in complete sentences
after ten nebulizer treatments while in the Emergency Room.
Oxygen saturation was 98% on 4 liters, and she was
hemodynamically stable.  Solu-Medrol 125 mg was given.

At approximately 5 A.M., the patient's shortness of breath
increased despite prior nebulizer treatments.  She also had
an episode of decreased heart rate and a question of asystole
with spontaneous return of her pulse.  Treatment for
hyperkalemia was initiated.  She was ventilated with a bag
valve mask, and by report, there were subsequent episodes of
asystole associated with increased resistance to bagging.
She ultimately was intubated for asystole and respiratory
decompensation.  She was started empirically on Levaquin 500
mg intravenously, and transferred to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit for further treatment and monitoring.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  PPD positive.  The patient is status post INH treatment
in [**2161**].
2.  Right foot cellulitis
3.  Reactive airway disease status post intubation x 1,
status post tracheostomy x 1, baseline peak flows are 275
4.  Question of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, no
documented pulmonary function tests, however, patient on 4
liters of oxygen at home at baseline
5.  Type 2 diabetes
6.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation
7.  Status post sex change operation.  The patient is a
genetic male.
8.  Hepatitis C positive
9.  Hepatitis B positive

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:    Prednisone, albuterol, Atrovent
metered dose inhalers, Serevent metered dose inhaler, Flovent
metered dose inhaler, Glucophage, Coumadin, Wellbutrin.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   The patient lives alone, has one sister,
[**Name (NI) **] [**Name (NI) 4887**], who lives in [**State 4260**].  Her phone number is
[**Telephone/Fax (1) 39494**].  The patient is retired.  Occasional alcohol
use.  No current tobacco use, quit smoking cigarettes
approximately 15 years ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  In general, the patient is an obese
black male, who is intubated and sedated.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat shows the patient to be normocephalic,
atraumatic head.  The pupils are fixed.  The endotracheal
tube is in place.  There is a well-healed tracheostomy scar.
Neck examination is difficult due to body habitus.  Jugular
venous pressure cannot be assessed.  The lung examination
shows diffuse wheezes bilaterally, with decreased breath
sounds throughout.  Heart examination shows the heart to be
distant, S1 and S2 are normal.  There are no murmurs, gallops
or rubs.  The abdomen is obese and soft.  There are positive
bowel sounds throughout.  The bladder is enlarged and tapped
to approximately halfway up the abdomen.  The extremities are
without clubbing or cyanosis, but there is 2+ edema in the
lower extremities.  The neurological examination is limited,
but the patient does withdraw appropriately to pain, and she
moves all extremities.  On genitourinary examination, the
patient is status post orchiectomy, and the Foley is unable
to be passed.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, white count 19.3, hematocrit
29.2, platelets 93.  Differential shows 75% neutrophils, 18%
lymphocytes, and 7% monocytes.  PT is 24, PTT 37, INR 3.8.
Sodium 135, potassium 9.8, chloride 97, bicarbonate 26, BUN
47, creatinine 3.5, glucose 259.  AST 27, ALT 34, CK 133,
albumin 3.7, amylase 51.  Total bilirubin 0.2.  Initial
arterial blood gas shows the patient to be acidotic with a pH
of 7.2, PCO2 of 86, and PO2 of 490, lactate level 5.1.

STUDIES:  Electrocardiogram on admission shows an accelerated
idioventricular rhythm with likely retrograde atrial
activation.  Chest x-ray showed mild to moderate pulmonary
vascular redistribution with early interstitial edema and
alveolar edema seen prominently in the mid to lower lung
zones.  It also showed a possible left basilar retrocardiac
opacity.  The endotracheal tube was in satisfactory position.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for further monitoring and treatment.

1.  Cardiovascular:  The patient was hemodynamically stable
when admitted.  An A-line was placed for close monitoring of
blood pressures.  She was initially in a junctional rhythm on
electrocardiogram, most likely secondary to hyperkalemia.
She was ruled out for a myocardial infarction with negative
enzymes, and emergent hemodialysis was obtained to treat her
hyperkalemia.  Her electrolytes were aggressively normalized.
Her potassium came down nicely with the hemodialysis.

Another reason for her abnormal rhythm was felt to be due to
Digoxin toxicity.  Therefore, her Digoxin was held and
allowed to drift down out of the toxic range.  Ms. [**Known lastname **]
continued in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, going in and out
of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular rates and
sporadic conversions into normal sinus rhythm.  Throughout
her episodes of atrial fibrillation, she remained
hemodynamically stable.  She was started on amiodarone and
diltiazem to help control her atrial fibrillation, and a
cardiac echocardiogram was obtained.  It showed a mildly
dilated left atrium and aorta.  Left ventricular ejection
fraction was normal at greater than 55%.  Her atrial
fibrillation finally broke on [**7-5**].  Her diltiazem drip
was weaned off, and her amiodarone drip was converted to oral
amiodarone.

After the 23rd, she had a few episodes of paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation, but would rapidly convert back into a sinus
rhythm with occasional premature atrial contractions.  Again
throughout these arrhythmias, she remained essentially
hemodynamically stable.  She was continued on a heparin drip
throughout, having it only being shut off for a few invasive
procedures, which will be discussed in the following
sections.  She was then started on Coumadin for atrial
fibrillation prophylaxis on [**7-14**].

At the time of discharge, the patient is in sinus rhythm with
occasional premature atrial contractions.  She is
hemodynamically stable, with systolic blood pressures ranging
from the low 100s to 150s, and she is on Coumadin with a goal
INR of 2 to 3.

2.  Renal:  As already stated, the patient was admitted in
acute renal failure.  She was given urgent hemodialysis for
hyperkalemia, and she had good response to this.  Her acute
renal failure was felt to be secondary to obstruction, given
her increased bladder size and the inability to place a
Foley.  She eventually had a Foley placed with the fiberoptic
scope.  This was needed since she had a distal urethral
stricture.  After these two interventions, as well as
hydration, the patient's renal function rapidly improved and,
at discharge, her creatinine was 0.6.

3.  Pulmonary:  The patient was intubated on the 13th for
respiratory distress, likely secondary to ventilatory failure
from reactive airway disease and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.  She also was noted to have a pneumonia on
chest x-ray, and Levaquin was started empirically.
Eventually her sputum grew out pseudomonas aeruginosa, and
her chest x-ray was worsening.  Piperacillin was added to her
antibiotic regimen on [**7-1**].  However, this failed to
improve the patient's pulmonary status, and on the 21st, the
piperacillin was changed to ceftazidime,