Admission Date: [**2194-6-1**]        Discharge Date: [**2194-6-7**]

Date of Birth:  [**2128-6-13**]        Sex:  M

Service:  MED


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65-year-old
Caucasian gentleman who presented to the [**Hospital1 346**] Emergency Department from an outside
hospital for three episodes of spiking fevers, significant
chills, and rigors, dyspnea, and tachypnea, and episodes of
delirium.  The patient states this started Thursday at around
3:00 p.m. when he was driving home for work, but he did not
measure his temperature.  After one hour of feeling very hot,
having chills, and extreme rigors the patient stated the
episode went away.  Again, he had this same episode with
diaphoresis, chills, rigors, tachypnea, and a fever to 104
degrees Fahrenheit on Friday.  The patient was admitted to an
outside hospital - which was [**Hospital6 6640**].

The patient had another episode on the morning of admission
to [**Hospital1 69**].  While at the
outside hospital, he was worked up for fever of unknown
origin with an unknown infectious site.  The patient had two
episodes of rigors at the outside hospital with fevers to
105.  Per the patient, he had a lumbar puncture under
fluoroscopy and a negative head computer tomography.  He had
a negative KUB, and blood cultures that were drawn.  The
patient's vital signs other than fever were stable except for
a desaturation to the low 80s during his rigorous episodes.
The rigorous episodes needed Tylenol; although, this did not
shorten the course of the episode but did bring the fever
down.

He denies any recent travel history, visits or exposures to
forests or [**Last Name (LF) 6641**], [**First Name3 (LF) 691**] ingestion of recent raw or undercooked
food.  All other review of systems were essentially negative.
The patient has no trauma and no obvious signs of puncture.
No obvious infectious exposures.  The patient denies any
chest pain, palpitations, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
constipation, or abdominal pain - but does state some
dysuria, hesitancy, and urgency, and the feeling of being
dehydrated.  The patient denies a cough, headache, neck pain,
photophobia, recent trauma, blood in the urine, blood from
any other orifice, cold symptoms, myalgias, arthralgias, or
any recent symptoms of this kind.

The patient's daughter states that during these rigorous
episodes the patient gets delirious and misnames common
objects that are around the room.  An example, was he called
a person an envelope.  He had been anxious since Thursday,
especially during these rigorous episodes; and, per the
daughter, he was agitated and not himself.

The patient's past medical history is significant for
multiple uric acid stones, which the patient feels may be
leading to this presentation.  The patient states about one
year ago he was diagnosed with urate stone at the outside
hospital, but nothing was done for it, and he does feel he
has passed the stone either.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial infarction in
[**2182**].

Status post angioplasty.

Degenerative joint disease.

History of recurrent urate stones.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Status post angioplasty in [**2172**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Zantac, and he denies any
herbal medications.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He denies any alcohol or intravenous drug
abuse.  He states a smoking history of one and a half packs
of cigarettes times 50 years.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs revealed
his temperature was 98.4, his blood pressure was 134/80, his
pulse was 92, his respiratory rate was 24, and he was
saturating 99 percent on 3 liters.  General physical
examination revealed he was anxious appearing and appropriate
for age.  He was in no acute distress.  He was alert and
oriented times three.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed the pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  The extraocular muscles
were intact.  The mucous membranes were dry.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed distant heart sounds.  A regular rate
and rhythm.  There were no murmurs.  First heart sounds and
second heart sounds.  On pulmonary examination, he had
prolonged expirations and mild rales in the left middle lobe,
and left lower lobe, and the right lower lobe.  The abdomen
was distended.  The abdomen was soft.  There were positive
bowel sounds.  The abdomen was nontender.  There was no
hepatosplenomegaly.  He was passing flatus.  Extremity
examination revealed no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  No
visibile puncture wounds.  There was no costovertebral angle
tenderness.  There was no flank tenderness.  Neurologic
examination revealed cranial nerves II through XII were
grossly intact.  There was presence of high cortical
function.  No focal deficits.  No changes in sensation.  Mini-
Mental Status Examination was greater than 28.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES FROM THE OUTSIDE HOSPITAL:  The
lumbar puncture under fluoroscopy showed no organisms.  Gram
stain, there was 1 white blood cell, 7 red blood cells,
clear, with a pending culture.  Blood cultures from the
outside hospital showed gram-negatives growing in anaerobic
bottles [**1-13**].

RADIOLOGY:  As stated before, a head computer tomography and
KUB - per outside hospital - were also negative.

A chest x-ray showed no acute process.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES IN HOUSE:  Negative urinalysis in
house, showed 2 plus protein, large blood, 20 to 30
epithelials, and leukocyte esterase negative.  White blood
cell count was 3.1, his hematocrit was 44, and his platelets
were 100.  Polymorphonuclear neutrophils of 77 percent.
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 8.  Sodium was 140,
potassium was 3.4, chloride was 108, bicarbonate was 26,
blood urea nitrogen was 7, creatinine was 0.5, and his blood
glucose was 128.  His troponin was less than 0.02.  His
albumin was 3.6.  His INR was 1.5.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 65-year-old
gentleman with a 3-day history of fever of unknown origin
with rigors, chills, tachypnea, and episodes of tachycardia
with delirium who was admitted from an outside hospital.  The
patient was initially worked up because of the rales found on
his physical examination as well as some signs suggestive of
either congestive heart failure or pneumonia found on chest x-
ray.  He was initially diagnosed with pneumonia and was
started on Levaquin and Flagyl for a possible aspiration
pneumonia.

The patient continued to have these rigor episodes while on
Levaquin and Flagyl, and other etiologies were  also pursued.
As the only imaging not done at the outside hospital -
including his abdomen and with a history of uric acid stones
and questionable picture of urosepsis, the patient received a
computer tomography of the abdomen which showed a left portal
vein septic thrombus.

During the first day of his admission, the patient had one
episode of rigors and chills which lasted for one hour with a
temperature to 105 - per axillary [**Location (un) 1131**]- as well as
tachycardia into the 140s (which was normal sinus).  The
patient had to be put on 10 liters of nonrebreather to keep
his oxygen saturations above 90 percent.  The patient was
given Tylenol.  The patient was normalized within one hour
with a normal temperature, a normal heart rate, and not
having any oxygen requirement at all.

After the left portal vein septic thrombus was found on the
computed tomography scan, the patient was immediately moved
to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit for further observation.
Blood cultures were again drawn, and the patient was changed
to ceftriaxone and azithromycin.  While in the Intensive Care
Unit the patient was seen by Surgery who did not feel that
the patient had any acute surgical needs.  Discussion,  per
the surgeons with the Interventional radiologists - all
agreed that the thrombus was stable at present (as confirmed
by a follow-up magnetic resonance imaging) that no surgical
intervention was necessary for removal of this clot.

The patient was started on Zosyn and then gentamicin was
later added.  He continued to spike fe