Admission Date:  [**2125-12-21**]     Discharge Date: [**2126-2-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2097-9-9**]     Sex:  M

Service:

Time covering [**2125-12-29**] to [**2126-1-19**].

1.  From a respiratory standpoint the patient was continued
on empiric Vancomycin and Levaquin.  On [**12-31**] he failed
a trial of pressor support secondary to apnea which was
thought secondary to sedation.  Therefore he was changed to
AC.  The positive end-expiratory pressure was decreased.  On
[**1-1**], he had a diagnostic thoracentesis performed
under ultrasound monitoring.  The parameters were
transudative with a pleural fluid pH of 7.41, total protein
2.3 with a ratio to serum of 39%, glucose 154, LDH 150 to
serum of 265, ratio 57%, gram stain had 2+ polymorphonuclear
leukocytes and no microorganisms.  Ventilator wean was
continued and on [**1-3**], pressor support was weaned
down.  On [**1-3**], he had a respiratory rate of 37,
however, secondary to his mental status it was felt unsafe to
extubate him at that time.  Through the night of [**1-3**]
to [**1-4**] he had increasing secretions and decreasing
oxygen saturations requiring increased support and instead
the morning of [**1-4**] was requiring AC settings again.
The concern was for ventilator-associated pneumonia and Zosyn
and Vancomycin were added to the patient's antibiotics.  On
[**1-5**], he had continued secretions and his sputum on
that day was positive for Methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus.  At that time discussions about
tracheostomy were initiated.  Interventional Pulmonology saw
the patient on [**1-7**] and the tracheostomy was planned
for the next day, however, on [**1-10**], the patient
extubated without the need for tracheostomy.  He had
aggressive sectioning and was able to remain extubated.
However, the day prior to his extubation on [**1-9**],
during a right subclavian line placement there was a
complication of a pneumothorax and the chest tube was placed.
The pneumothorax resolved and the chest tube was removed on
[**1-11**].  The patient's respiratory status continued to
improve and with frequent suctioning he was slowly weaned
from the face mask to nasal cannula 2 liters.  However, on
late day [**1-14**] and through the night the patient
developed increasing respiratory rate and was tried on BiPAP
and felt panicked.  He started to tire and was reintubated
the morning of [**1-15**].  It was thought that the patient
had another possible aspiration event.  He was sedated with
Propofol at that time.  He was started on pressor support and
over the next couple of days was noted to be very tachypneic
the night of [**1-16**], with a high ventilation.  He was
switched back to AC with an increased sedation.  Given his
continued fevers another chest computerized tomography scan
was done.  This was without contrast, given his kidney
function.  It showed bibasilar consolidation with a moderate
right pleural effusion.  On the following day it was decided
to do a contrast computerized tomography scan which he had on
the morning of [**1-18**], showing the bibasilar
consolidation, right pleural effusion, regions of goundglass
opacity and perihilar regions consistent with mild pulmonary
edema, no pericardial effusion.  On [**1-17**], a bronchoscopy
was performed without difficulty.  Airways were inspected to
the segmental level.  Last night he had diffuse airway
erythema with thick tan secretions noted in the left lower
lobe which were collected and in the right middle lobe
greater than right lobe and anomalous right upper lobe
bronchi noted with two bronchi off the right main stem.  On
[**1-18**], after the computerized tomography scan was
completed, ultrasound came and marked the pleural effusion
for which another diagnostic thoracentesis was performed.
This fluid was now exudative with pH of 7.31, white cells
2,200, 54 polys, 11 lymphocytes, 21 monocytes, 4 mesophils,
247,250 red blood cells, total protein 3.8, glucose 76, LDH
453 with a serum LDH of 208.  Gram stain had 1+ PMNs and no
microorganisms.  The patient was tried several times on
[**1-19**] on AC but he was uncomfortable on this setting and
was switched back to CPAP pressor support for which he is
more comfortable.  He continued to have secretions that were
suctioned.  Currently the patient is unstable.  Ventilator
settings, CPAP pressor support with positive end-expiratory
pressure and pressor support being weaned down slightly, he
is having venous blood gases followed closely along with
chem-7.  His arterial access for venous blood gases is very
difficult because the right radial fills a reverse [**Doctor Last Name 6237**]
test, the left radial has a lot of scar tissue from previous
arterial lines.  He is on heparin, so femoral arterial blood
gases are a higher risk as well as he intermittently has less
warmth in his right foot and the dorsalis pedis becomes only
dopplerable during these episodes, making his capillary
system questionable for perfusion and concerning.  However,
arterial blood gases have been drawn when indicated.

2.  Infectious disease - The patient continued to have fevers
and it was felt this was not a hepatobiliary source of
infection.  He had increased eosinophils and rash and his
Ceftazidime was stopped.  He was tested numerous times for
Clostridium difficile which was negative.  He had numerous
pancultures of sputum, urine and blood, all of which remained
negative thus far although multiple are pending.  There was a
question of whether any of this could be related and so drugs
that were not necessary were stopped such as Reglan.  He did
have several sputums positive for yeast and
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and the only
other culture that was positive was arterial line tip
positive for Staphylococcus coagulase negative and viral
studies for Ebstein-[**Doctor Last Name **] virus positive, although numerous
studies are pending at this time.  On [**12-30**], Podiatry
was consulted given his foot infection which they felt was
tinea and recommended Betadine and dressing changes.  He had
dark discoloration and some cracks between the left fourth
and fifth toes.  On [**1-1**], thoracentesis was performed
which was transudative Ebstein-[**Doctor Last Name **] virus, PCA and IgG and a
very positive EPV, and an IgG antibody positive, Ebstein-[**Doctor Last Name **]
virus, VCA, IgM antibody positive, cytomegalovirus negative,
HCV 1 and 2 negative, HCV, RMA negative, adenovirus negative.
On [**1-2**] he had a computerized tomography scan of his
chest, sinuses, abdomen and pelvis because of the results of
this which showed pelvis and abdomen with no free fluids, no
abnormalities other than bibasilar small pleural effusions,
scattered mediastinal axillary lymph nodes.  The T-sinus
showed near total opacification of the frontal air cells,
maxillary, ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses are with significant
opacification of the maxillary air cells bilaterally which
could be secondary to the patient's tube but could not be
distinguished from acute sinusitis.  Otorhinolaryngology was
consulted.  They felt that there was likely some sinusitis
but unlikely that this was the source of fevers and that no
intervention was indicated other than antibiotics and
Aspirin.  On [**1-3**], Plastics was consulted to look at
the foot as a possible source.  They felt again that it was
an unlikely source of infection and recommended Lamisil.  On
[**1-4**], when he had the desaturations, concerns for
ventilator associated pneumonia and Zosyn was added to the
Vancomycin.  He also had increasing diarrhea on that day and
concern for Clostridium difficile given his long antibiotic
course, the Flagyl was started empirically, however, it was
stopped when Clostridium difficile was negative.  He had
sputums that were positive for Methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus and yeast.  On [**1-8**], Podiatry
was reconsulted to look at the foot as a possible source of
fevers and infection.  However, again they felt it was low
suspicion for ostial myelitis.  On [**1-11**], his white
blood count went from 13.9 to 25.1.  He was clinically stable
and then his white count trended down.  He continued to have
fevers although a lower curve.  