Admission Date:  [**2159-2-18**]     Discharge Date:  [**2159-2-24**]


Service:  ACOVE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 83-year-old
female with Alzheimer's dementia and chronic aspiration,
status post jejunostomy tube, with diverticulosis, urinary
incontinence, and history of a gastrointestinal bleed who
presented to the Emergency Department with several hours of
shortness of breath not resolving.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was tachycardic,
initially normotensive with an oxygen saturation of 96% on
room air.  Her troponin T was found to be 0.67 and went to
0.8.  The patient was started on aspirin, heparin, and
Lopressor.  A chest x-ray revealed a question of pneumonia
and congestive heart failure.  The patient was given Lasix 20
mg intravenously times one with levofloxacin and Flagyl and
subsequently developed hypotension to 86/59.

An emergent bedside echocardiogram revealed severe right
ventricular hypokinesis and akinesis, moderate aortic
regurgitation, moderate mitral regurgitation, and severe
tricuspid regurgitation with a tricuspid regurgitation jet of
40 mmHg  to 45 mmHg.  Of note, the patient has a history of a
right lower extremity edema times one day.  Echocardiogram
findings were concerning for hemodynamically significant
pulmonary embolism.  Given the acute renal failure the
patient was found to be in, a computed tomography angiogram
was deferred due to concern of dye load.  The patient was
started on 2 liters of intravenous fluids and dopamine.  The
heparin drip was continued.  The patient was transferred to
the Surgical Intensive Care Unit for management of pulmonary
embolism/myocardial infarction.

The patient had brown stool with bright red streaks in the
Emergency Department.  External hemorrhoids were found on
examination.  The patient could grunt but not answer any
questions.  She opened her eyes to voice when she was shaken
gently.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Alzheimer's dementia.
2.  Diverticulosis.
3.  Aspiration; status post jejunostomy tube in [**2157-1-21**].
4.  Gastrointestinal bleed in [**2158-6-20**] with negative
esophagogastroduodenoscopy and diverticulosis on colonoscopy.
5.  Previous duodenal ulcer on [**2158-10-21**]
esophagogastroduodenoscopy but healed on [**2158-6-20**]
esophagogastroduodenoscopy.
6.  Diabetes mellitus (diet controlled).
7.  Urinary incontinence.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Lopressor 12.5 mg by mouth twice per day.
2.  Lisinopril 2.5 mg by mouth once per day.
3.  Aricept 10 mg by mouth once per day.
4.  Protonix 40 mg by mouth twice per day.
5.  Multivitamin.
6.  Vitamin E 400 International Units by mouth every day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her son and her
daughter-in-law.  She has two daughters and one son.  She is
cared for by two nurses.  She was born in [**Location (un) 6847**] and has
lived in the United States for 30 years.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed the patient's temperature was 100.4
degrees Fahrenheit, her heart rate was 105, her blood
pressure was 104/60, her respiratory rate was 21, and her
oxygen saturation was 98% on 1.5 liters of nasal cannula.  In
general, she was an elderly Chinese female in no apparent
distress.  She opened her eyes to voice, and she was
nonverbal.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed pupils were 1.5 mm and went to 1 mm.  The mucous
membranes were slightly dry.  Jugular venous pressure was
approximately 8 cm.  Chest had bilateral crackles half to
two-thirds of the way up.  Heart had a holosystolic murmur
all over the precordium; most pronounced at the left sternal
border and the apex.  She had a regular rhythm.  The abdomen
was softly distended and nontender.  The liver edge was 3.5
fingerbreadths below the costal margin.  A PEG-tube was in
place with surrounding tenderness or erythema.  Extremities
had 1+ pedal edema on the right side.  There was no edema on
the left.  No clubbing or cyanosis.  There was a hematoma
over the right dorsal hand.  On neurologic examination, she
was asleep but arousable to voice.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  White blood
cell count was 10.2, her hematocrit was 35.1, and her
platelets were 277.  Her INR was 1.6.  Her partial
thromboplastin time was 60.9.  Sodium was 139, potassium was
5.8, chloride was 104, bicarbonate was 25, blood urea
nitrogen was 96, creatinine was 1.6 (baseline was known at
0.8), and her blood glucose was 193.  Urinalysis was
negative. Liver function tests were within normal limits.  As
stated, troponin went from 0.67 to 0.83; however, creatine
kinase and MB values remained flat.  Her lactate was 1.8.
Arterial blood gas was 7.41/38/103.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A KUB revealed no free air and
no obstruction.

A right lower extremity Doppler study revealed no deep venous
thrombosis.

A chest x-ray revealed bilateral lobe infiltrates with
bilateral pleural effusions (right greater than left),
moderate alveolar enlargement, dilated aorta, cephalization;
consistent with acute left ventricular failure.

An electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 92
beats per minute, borderline primary atrioventricular nodal
block, old Q waves seen in III, old T wave inversions in III.
There was poor R wave progression (brand new).  New T wave
flattening in the precordial leads.

IMPRESSION:  Our impression was that this is an 83-year-old
Cantonese-speaking woman with baseline dementia, diet
controlled diabetes mellitus, and a history of aspiration
(status post a gastrojejunostomy tube), and a history of
gastrointestinal bleed now presenting with hypotension, a
blown right ventricle, likely pulmonary embolism, congestive
heart failure exacerbation, aspiration pneumonia, and acute
renal failure.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

 1.  HYPOTENSION ISSUES:  Due to blown right ventricle
cardiogenic shock, there was a question of septic shock;
however, the patient's lactate was normal and there was clear
evidence of new right ventricular dysfunction on chest x-ray.

The patient was given aggressive intravenous fluids given
that she was highly preload dependent.  The patient was
started on dopamine.  She was put on heparin for her
pulmonary embolism and question of myocardial infarction.  It
was determined not to give t-[**MD Number(3) 6360**] the fact that she had a
gastrointestinal bleed history.

 2.  ELEVATED TROPONIN ISSUES:  Elevated troponin levels
presumed to be secondary to blown right ventricle; less
likely a myocardial infarction secondary to flat creatine
kinase levels.  Cardiac enzymes were followed.  The heparin
drip was continued with aspirin, and beta blocker was held
for hypotension as well as ACE inhibitor.

 3.  ACUTE RENAL FAILURE ISSUES:  There was a question of
prerenal secondary to hypotension and poor forward flow.
There was no evidence for acute tubular necrosis found on
urine electrolytes.  The patient was maintained on
intravenous fluids and dopamine to keep her blood pressure
adequate.

 4.  HYPERKALEMIA ISSUES:  Hyperkalemia was presumed to be
secondary to acute renal failure versus her ACE inhibitor.
Unclear what her baseline potassium was.  She had no
electrocardiogram changes, and Kayexalate was given once with
good affect.  Her potassium decreased appropriately.

 5.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE ISSUES:  Congestive heart
failure was presumed to be secondary to mitral regurgitation.
Stable oxygen saturations throughout.  She was not diuresed
any further given the fact that she had a blown right
ventricle and was preload dependent for her cardiac output.

 6.  HEPATOMEGALY ISSUES:  There was a question of congestion
from right-sided failure.  The patient had normal liver
function tests and normal synthetic function.  Given that all
these were normal, it was determined not to work this up
further at this time.   There was no evidence of pancreatitis
on examination either.

 7.  QUESTION OF INFILTRATE/PNEUMONIA ISSUES:  This was
thought to be aspiration pneumonia.  The patient did not have
poor dentition.  She had no teeth.  She was covered with
levofloxacin.

 8.  TYPE 2 D