Admission Date:  [**2165-5-22**]     Discharge Date:  [**2165-6-3**]


Service:  [**Doctor Last Name **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypotension, status post fall.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old
gentleman with a past medical history significant for
coronary artery disease (status post coronary artery bypass
graft, aortic valve replacement) and prostate cancer (status
post transurethral resection of prostate) who presented to
the Emergency Department status post a fall with generalized
weakness, tachypnea, and fever.

The patient was reportedly in his usual state of health until
approximately one week prior to admission when he reports
progressive lethargy and fatigue with three to four days of
dyspnea on exertion.  He also reports a several week history
of low back pain for which he was recently started on
Neurontin.

The patient was seen by his primary care physician one day
prior to admission and was found to have a white blood cell
count of 22 and a left shift with normal chemistries, liver
function tests, and hematocrit.  The patient was planned for
an outpatient chest x-ray and blood cultures on the day of
admission when he reportedly fell secondary to lower
extremity weakness without loss of consciousness or head
trauma.

The patient was found by his son-in-law on the floor with an
increased respiratory rate and labored breathing; awake,
alert, and without complaints.  The patient denied chest
pain, headache, melena, bright red blood per rectum, as well
as dysuria.  However, the patient did report a 1-day history
of fevers with nausea, vomiting, and increased urinary
urgency with poor oral intake.

Of note, one week prior to admission, the patient was able to
walk two miles per day.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was found febrile to
101.5, with a systolic blood pressure of 68/30 (from an
initial blood pressure of 108/38), heart rate was 70s to 80s,
with an oxygen saturation of 100% on room air.  The patient
was awake and mentating adequately at the time.  The patient
was started on dopamine, intravenous fluids, and broad
spectrum antibiotics (ceftriaxone, Flagyl, and levofloxacin)
and transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction in [**2149**] with subsequent coronary artery bypass
graft.
2.  Status post porcine aortic valve replacement.
3.  History of peptic ulcer disease; status post Billroth II.
4.  Status post prior cerebellar stroke.
5.  History of prostate cancer; status post transurethral
resection of prostate.
6.  History of carotid stenosis; bilateral.
7.  Peripheral neuropathy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. once per day.
2.  Zocor 40 mg p.o. once per day.
3.  Norvasc 5 mg p.o. once per day.
4.  Neurontin 300 mg p.o. twice per day.
5.  Atenolol 25 mg p.o. once per day.
6.  Prevacid 15 mg p.o. once per day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is widowed and lives alone with
a supportive family.  The patient denies tobacco, alcohol, as
well as illicit drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was noncontributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient denies melena, focal
weakness, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, lower extremity
edema, orthopnea, and hematuria.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed temperature was 101.5, blood pressure
was 98/60, heart rate was 97, respiratory rate was 24, and
oxygen saturation was 96% on 4 liters nasal cannula.  In
general, the patient was a thin elderly male who appeared
tachypneic and in mild distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.
Pupils were equally round and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Sclerae were anicteric.  Mucous membranes
were dry.  Edentulous.  The oropharynx was clear.  Neck
examination revealed supple with no lymphadenopathy or
jugular venous distention.  Pulmonary examination revealed
bibasilar crackles; right greater than left.  No egophony or
wheezing appreciated.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a
regular rate and rhythm with a 3/6 systolic murmur at the
left lower sternal border radiating to the axilla with
well-healed midline sternal scar.  Abdominal examination
revealed abdomen was soft with normal active bowel sounds.
No hepatosplenomegaly.  No masses appreciated.  Extremities
were warm and well perfused with 2+ dorsalis pedis and
posterior tibialis pulses.  No edema.  Neurologic examination
revealed awake and oriented times three.  Diffusely weak, but
no focal weakness appreciated.  Strength was 4+/5 throughout.
Sensation was intact with slightly decreased sensation in the
lower extremities bilaterally with 1+ symmetric reflexes.
Gait examination was deferred.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed complete blood count with a white blood
cell count of 37.6 (44% polys, 43% bands, 5% lymphocytes, and
5% monocytes), hematocrit was 32, mean cell volume was 87,
and platelets were 214.  Chemistry-7 revealed sodium was 136,
potassium was 4.1, chloride was 105, bicarbonate was 16,
blood urea nitrogen was 46, creatinine was 2.4, and blood
glucose was 191.  Prothrombin time was 16, INR was 1.7, and
partial thromboplastin time was 44.1.  Total bilirubin was
0.3, ALT was 19, AST was 45, and alkaline phosphatase was 72.
Creatine kinase was 1261 with a negative MB and negative
troponin I.  LDH was 280.  Urine electrolytes with a urine
sodium of less than 10.  Microbiology of data obtained from
admission with blood cultures times two on [**5-22**] and [**5-23**]
were without growth for the duration of the hospitalization.
Urine culture from [**5-22**] also without growth during the
hospitalization.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray on admission with
a new right lower lobe consolidation with air bronchograms.
No significant effusions were noted.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for management of hypotension with
presumed right lower lobe community-acquired pneumonia.

The patient was aggressively volume resuscitated with 6
liters of intravenous fluids for hypotension secondary to
presumed dehydration with possible sepsis.  With intravenous
hydration, the patient's blood pressure normalized and the
patient was quickly weaned off dopamine.

The patient was noted to have elevated creatine kinase levels
(peak of 1893) with a negative MB index and was ruled out for
a myocardial infarction with three sets of cardiac enzymes.

On hospital day two, after intravenous hydration, the
patient's chest x-ray demonstrated a right lower lobe
infiltrate, and the patient was continued on broad empiric
antibiotics for presumed community-acquired pneumonia.  The
patient continued with a 4-liter oxygen requirement on
transfer to the medicine floor.

On transfer to the medicine floor, the patient remained
afebrile on broad empiric antibiotics with no growth on
sputum, urine, as well as blood cultures.  The patient
continued with a large oxygen requirement with continued
right lower lobe infiltrate.

Two days out of the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the patient
developed new onset atrial fibrillation with a rapid
ventricular rate to the 120s.  The patient remained
normotensive; however, developed congestive heart failure in
the setting of rapid atrial fibrillation and required Lasix
diuresis.  The patient was started on heparin as well as a
beta blocker which was titrated for rate control.

The Cardiology Service was consulted with recommendations for
a transesophageal echocardiogram and direct current
cardioversion given poorly tolerated atrial fibrillation.

The patient underwent a transesophageal echocardiogram
without evidence of intracardiac thrombus and subsequent
direct current cardioversion.  The patient converted to a
sinus rhythm with one shock at 200 joules.  However, shortly
thereafter, the patient was again found in atrial
fibrillation with a rapid ventricular rate.

The Electrophysiology Service was consulted who recommended
amiodarone loading and titration of Lopressor for improved
rate control.  Despi