Admission Date:  [**2155-7-9**]       Discharge Date:  [**2155-7-14**]


Service:  Medicine

DISPOSITION:  [**Hospital3 **] Center for Aged

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient was admitted on [**7-9**] with a
chief complaint of gastrointestinal bleed.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 88 year old female
with a history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia,
prolymphocytic type and pulmonary hypertension who presents
with epistaxis to the Emergency Department.  She was noted to
be hypoxic in the Emergency Department with oxygen
saturations in the 70s.  A chest x-ray was performed that
showed bilateral pleural effusions and some concern for
aspiration versus congestive heart failure.  The patient's
nose was packed with Gelfoam and the bleeding was controlled.
At that point the patient complained of "laying on something
wet" and was noted to be sitting in a pool of bright red
blood.  Her hematocrit was rechecked and it had decreased
from 33 at 1 PM to 23 at 7 PM.  The patient also complained
of intermittent abdominal pain.  The patient was hypertensive
to the 170s, systolic pressure and pulse was in the 80s.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient was noted to have a few weeks
of anorexia and fatigue.  She denied chest pain, abdominal
pain and any other pain in the Emergency Department, but she
did complain of shortness of breath.  In the Emergency
Department she also received 20 mg of intravenous Lasix and
Vitamin K.  Her nose was packed with Gelfoam and the bleeding
was stopped.  An nasogastric tube was placed and a
nasogastric lavage was done which returned 50 to 100 cc of
coffee ground which cleared.  There were no signs of active
upper gastrointestinal bleeding.  The coffee grounds were
thought secondary to the swallowing of the nosebleed.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Pulmonary hypertension, unknown
etiology, she is on 2 liters of home oxygen.  2.
Prolymphocytic leukemia, followed by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].  She was on
schedule to have her first chemotherapy treatment for this
consisting of Chlorambucil one day after presentation to the
Emergency Department.  This therapy was palliative only.  3.
Rectal prolapse with vaginal pessary.  4.  Paget's disease.
5.  Peptic ulcer disease, presumptive diagnosis secondary to
gastroesophageal reflux disease.  6.  History of pneumonia.
7.  Hypertension.  8.  Status post appendectomy.  9.  Status
post total abdominal hysterectomy/bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Tylenol 1 gm q.i.d., Allopurinol
200 mg p.o. q.d., Premarin 0.625 mg p.o. q.d., Ferrous
Sulfate 325 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d.,
Levothyroxine 75 mcg p.o. q.d., Lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. q.d.,
Multivitamin, Nadolol 20 mg p.o. q.d., Nizatidine 150 mg p.o.
q.d., Ilotyein eyedrops b.i.d. to the left eye.

ALLERGIES:  Allergies to anesthesia which "caused an
myocardial infarction postoperatively."

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives at [**Hospital3 **]
Center.  She is a widow.  She was born in [**Country 532**] and moved to
the United States from [**Country 10363**] in the 8th grade.  She is a
retired nurses aid.  Her stepdaugther is her health care
proxy.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Her parents died in a motor vehicle accident
at a young age.  The patient is Do-Not-Resuscitate,
Do-Not-Intubate.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination in the Emergency
Department revealed temperature 97.0, pulse 80, blood
pressure 170/60.  Oxygen saturation was 70% on room air which
increased to 84% on 4 liters which increased to 95 to 100% on
100% nonrebreather.  In general pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  She has cataracts and dry mucous
membranes.  Neck, jugulovenous pressure just 7 cm.  Cardiac
examination, regular rate and rhythm, positive S1 and S2 and
S4.  There is a II/VI holosystolic murmur at the left upper
sternal border.  Lungs, bibasilar rales, right greater than
left.  Abdomen, soft, nondistended, nontender, palpable
spleen.  Extremities, trace pitting edema of the ankles.
Rectal examination is grossly guaiac positive with maroon
stool.  There is stool in the rectal vault.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory data at 1 PM revealed SMA-7 140,
4.8, 103, 30, 16, 0.7 and glucose 109.  White count 134,
hematocrit 33.7, platelets 203, differential on white count 2
neutrophils, 0 bands, 96 lymphocytes.  INR is 1.4.  At 7 PM
repeat hematocrit was 23.6.  KUB film, nonspecific bowel gas
pattern, gallstones are present with no free air.  Chest
x-ray, tortuous calcified aorta, cardiomegaly, congestive
heart failure with effusions, elevation of the left
hemidiaphragm.  Electrocardiogram, normal sinus rhythm, left
axis deviation, T wave inversions in 3 and AVF, V1 and V3,
poor R wave progression.  Urinalysis, small blood, 0-2 red
blood cells, 0-2 white blood cells and occasional bacteria.

ASSESSMENT:  An 88 year old female with bright red blood per
rectum, nasogastric lavage with coffee grounds that cleared.
She was hemodynamically stable.

PLAN:  The gastrointestinal bleed is likely a lower
gastrointestinal bleed, most likely causes are arteriovenous
malformation or diverticulosis.  The patient will be treated
conservatively with supportive measures including blood
transfusions and a close hemodynamic monitoring.  A DIC panel
was sent for evaluation of clotting disorder secondary to the
chronic lymphocytic leukemia.  Pulmonary status, the patient
will be escorted with oxygen.  The patient confirmed her
Do-Not-Resuscitate, Do-Not-Intubate status.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Gastrointestinal - The patient was
supported with blood transfusions.  She received a total of
three blood transfusions.  By the end of hospital day #2, her
hematocrit had stabilized post transfusion at 30, subsequent
hematocrit checks were unchanged.  The patient did not want a
colonoscopy, one was not performed as the patient's
hematocrit stabilized.  On discharge she was still having
trace guaiac positive stool.  The patient was maintained on
Protonix during her entire time in the hospital as the
patient is Do-Not-Resuscitate/Do-Not-Intubate and did not
want colonoscopy.  The patient will follow up with
Gastroenterology but there are no plans to perform a
colonoscopy at this time.  An Helicobacter pylori antibody
test was sent and is pending at the time of discharge.

Cardiovascular - All the patient's antihypertensive
medications were stopped upon admission.  After the
hematocrit had been stable for 24 hours, on hospital day #3,
the patient was restarted on her Captopril instead of
Lisinopril.  Lasix was given as needed for pulmonary edema
and congestive heart failure symptoms.  She was placed back
on her standing Lasix dose on hospital day #4.  Also on
hospital day #4 the patient's Nadolol was restarted.  When
the patient received her blood transfusions she was given
Lasix after each transfusion as she did manifest some
symptoms concerning for congestive heart failure and volume
overload.

Pulmonary - The patient was maintained on face mask oxygen
and then nasal cannula oxygen.  The patient did have crackles
on examination and was given Lasix for volume overload as
noted in the cardiovascular hospital course.  There were no
other significant pulmonary events.  From an Oncology
perspective, the patient has prolymphocytic leukemia.  There
were plans to treat this palliatively with Chlorambucil.
These plans were abandoned during this admission.  The
patient will follow up with her outpatient oncologist at a
later date.  The Oncology Consulting Service did not think
the chronic lymphocytic leukemia contributed to any bleeding
diathesis contributing to the patient's presentation.

From an endocrine perspective the patient's Synthroid was
continued.  From a psychiatric perspective the patient is
withdrawn and "dwindling" for the preceding number of weeks.
A TSH level will be checked and followed up as an outpatient
to see if her Synthroid dose needs to be increased.  The
patient will also be screened for depression by her primary
care doctor.

Finally, the patient is hard of hearing, did not bring her
hearing aids and some of her withdrawn behavior may be due to
the patient not being able to hear and interact with other
people appropriately.

The patient will be disc