Admission Date:  [**2116-5-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2116-5-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2062-12-24**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 53 year old man
with a history of coronary artery disease, insulin dependent
diabetes mellitus for 40 years and a renal transplant in [**2103**]
who presented who presented with an increased dyspnea on
exertion and shortness of breath at rest, increased over a
chronic baseline level.  The patient noted symptoms acutely
worsened one day prior to admission prompting an Emergency
Room visit.  In the Emergency Room the patient denied chest
pain, palpitations, nausea, vomiting or diaphoresis as well
as fever and chills.  The patient did note that his usual
dose of Lasix was not working.  In the Emergency Room he was
found to be sating high 90s on 2 liters after 80 mg of Lasix.
He was admitted to the [**Hospital Unit Name 196**] floor he was found to have a low
saturation.  He was put on 100% nonrebreather, sating in the
mid 90s.  Respiratory rate was 30s to 40s.  The patient was
given 40 plus 40 of intravenous Lasix without any increased
urine output.  On the nitroglycerin drip and Morphine the
patient was able to diurese 200 cc.  The patient's
respiratory rate decreased to the 20s.  The patient's
examination had improved.  the patient was taken to the
Catheterization laboratory where he was found to be 80% on
100% nonrebreather.  The patient was also found to have
lateral electrocardiogram changes.  He was diaphoretic and
not complaining of chest pain but noting paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea and orthopnea.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Insulin dependent diabetes
mellitus for 40 years with triopathy; 2.  Status post renal
transplant [**2103**]; 3.  Status post bilateral below the knee
amputation; 4.  Coronary artery disease, with three vessel
disease with poor touchdowns, not a surgical candidate with
recent in-stent stenosis of the left anterior descending
stent treated with brachytherapy; 5.  Recent admit for right
knee ulcer to [**Hospital3 **].

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Pravachol 20 mg p.o. q.d.; Aspirin
325 mg p.o. q. day; Lasix 60 mg p.o. q. day; Enalapril 20 mg
p.o. b.i.d.; Lasix 75 mg p.o. q. day; Isordil 20 mg p.o.
t.i.d.; Prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.o.d.; Sandimmune 100 mg p.o.
q. AM and 50 mg p.o. q. PM; Imuran 50 mg p.o. q. day; Ativan
2 to 4 mg p.o. q. 4 to 6 hours prn; NPH 20 units
subcutaneously in the morning and 14 units subcutaneously in
the PM; regular insulin sliding scale; Toprol XL 12.5 mg p.o.
q. day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is full code.  He lives alone.
His wife had died recently.  The patient quit smoking tobacco
20 years ago.  He denied any alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for gastrointestinal and breast
cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient's pulse was 95, blood
pressure was 125/38 with MAP 67, respiratory rate 22 and
oxygen saturation 97% on 100% nonrebreather.  On general
examination the patient was a very chronically ill appearing
man in no apparent distress who was bolt upright in bed.  On
head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination the patient had
pupils which were nonreactive.  Neck examination revealed no
lymphadenopathy and a central venous pressure of
approximately 10 cm of water.  Cardiac examination revealed a
regular rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2 with no murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  There was presence of an S3.  Pulmonary
examination revealed rales up to [**1-19**] of the lung fields with
bilateral pleural effusions.  On abdominal examination the
patient's belly was soft, nontender, nondistended with normal
bowel sounds.  Extremity examination reveals bilateral below
the knee amputations, 2+ edema.  There was a left Stage 3
decubitus ulcer of the patella region.

LABORATORY DATA:  Pertinent laboratory findings revealed a
white blood cell count of 9.4, hematocrit 40, platelets 291.
The patient had a BUN of 31, creatinine 1.4.  The patient's
CK was trending downwards.

Electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm at 75 with
normal axis, left atrial abnormality, ST elevations V1
through V4, 1 to 3 mm.  There were also small Q waves in 3
and F.  Chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure with
bilateral pleural effusions.  [**2115-11-16**], stress MIBI,
the patient with reversible moderate inferior and anterior
and septal wall defect.

Echocardiogram performed [**2116-5-6**], revealed sinus
tachycardia with no anxiety, abdominal aortic aneurysm, ST
increased V2 to V4, the patient also had biphasic T in V6.

Cardiac catheterization, the patient had ejection fraction of
20 to 30% with 100% proximal right coronary artery lesion,
95% recurrent in-stent mid left anterior descending lesion.
This focal lesion was dilated successfully.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 53 year old man with a
history of coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction and
renal transplant as well as insulin dependent diabetes
mellitus and congestive heart failure.

1.  Cardiovascular - From the cardiovascular standpoint the
patient presented in acute decompensated heart failure in the
setting of ischemic heart disease.

From a coronary artery disease standpoint the patient has
severe three vessel disease.  Multiple interventions
including recent percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty and brachiotherapy to the left anterior
descending now presented with recurrent in-stent left anterior
descending
stenosis, status post percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty.  The patient was ruled out for myocardial
infarction.  He was evaluated by Cardiac Surgery who felt
that the patient was not a coronary artery
bypass candidate.  He was continued on Aspirin, Plavix and
Beta blockers as well as Pravachol.

From a myocardial standpoint the patient had an ejection
fraction of 20% with severe hypokinesis, left ventricular
hypertrophy, and diastolic dysfunction.  He presented with
decompensated heart failure.  He ruled out for myocardial
infarction, however, his congestive heart failure was felt to
be secondary to ischemic heart disease.  The patient was
diuresed with Lasix and eventually a combination of Diuril
and Lasix.  The patient was started on Natrecor which
initially caused some hypotension but then the patient
reported improvement in his shortness of breath.  He had
augmented diuresis while on the Natrecor.  The patient was
considered for Aldactone although with his history of
hyperkalemia this was deferred.  Plan was to use BiPAP if the
patient were to have further acute pulmonary edema.  Post
cardiac catheterization the patient had an episode of acute
pulmonary edema which was responsive to Morphine and Lasix.
The patient was continued on his outpatient heart failure
regimen which included Enalapril, Isordil, and Toprol.

From a conduction standpoint the patient remained in sinus
rhythm and was continued on his Beta blocker.

From an endocrine standpoint the patient presented with a
history of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and was
maintained on a regimen of NPH and regular insulin sliding
scale as per his outpatient regimen.

From a renal standpoint the patient is status post renal
transplant on an immunosuppressant regimen.  He presented at
his baseline creatinine.  However, with fingerstick diuresis
the patient's creatinine climbed from 1.4 to approximately
1.8.  His Cyclosporin level of 113 was within normal limits.
The renal transplant team followed the patient.  His
creatinine gradually began to trend down at the end of the
[**Hospital 228**] hospital course.

Infectious disease - The patient presented with a left knee
ulcer near the site of the left below the knee amputation.
Vascular surgery was consulted and felt the patient should be
on Levofloxacin and Flagyl.  They debrided the ulcer.  The
patient was continued on Levofloxacin and Flagyl for
approximately a course of 14 days.  The patient had a swab
that grew Enterobacter as well as Stenotrophomonas.
Infectious Disease was contact[**Name (NI) **] regarding the treatment of
his Stenotrophomonas.  Given the marked clinical improvement
in the ulcer, the feeling was that the Stenotro