Admission Date:  [**2195-12-25**]     Discharge Date:  [**2195-12-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2123-7-8**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72-year-old
male with a history of ischemic cardiomyopathy with a known
EF of 15%, diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, peptic ulcer disease who was admitted
to [**Hospital3 417**] Hospital on [**12-19**] for congestive heart
failure.  The patient reports one week prior to admission he
began experiencing increased shortness of breath, dyspnea on
exertion, orthopnea and PND.  This was also associated with
the production of green sputum.  The patient was started on
Levaquin and admitted for increasing shortness of breath.
The patient ruled out for MI by three normal sets of enzymes
at the outside hospital.  Subsequently a nuclear stress test
was obtained which demonstrated a lateral ischemic area with
a fixed septal defect and an EF of 14%.  The patient was
diuresed and treated with antibiotic therapy.  However, prior
to his discharge, the patient had a run of non sustained V
tach and was therefore transferred to [**Hospital1 190**] for catheterization with potential
revascularization as well as for consideration of an EP
study.

Catheterization performed at time of admission demonstrated a
wedge of 30, PA sat 50%, right dominant, PA pressure 52/27,
no NCA, normal LAD, 90% stenosis of the focal mid region,
left circumflex normal, RCA 100% with good collaterals.  A
stent was placed in the LAD which resulted in dissection of
V1 and a stent was also placed in V1.  Final result of the
catheterization revealed an LAD of 0%, mid LAD 10%, D1 10%.
The patient demonstrated a PA sat of 39% towards the end of
the procedure and a balloon pump was placed.

The patient was then transferred to the cardiac care unit for
further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Ischemic cardiomyopathy with a
catheterization in [**2193-3-28**] demonstrating normal LM, normal
left circumflex, normal LAD, RCA 100% with an EF of 47%.  2)
Congestive heart failure with an EF of 15%.  3) Hypertension.
4) Diabetes mellitus.  5) Hypercholesterolemia.  6) Peptic
ulcer disease.

MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg po q d, Lasix 40 mg po q d,
Diovan 80 mg po q d, Atenolol 25 mg po q d, Glipizide 5 mg po
q d, Prevacid 30 mg po bid, Pravachol 40 mg po q d, Metformin
500 mg po q d, Levaquin 250 mg po q d.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives at home with his wife and
is able to perform all ADLs.  He denies any tobacco or
alcohol history.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient reports [**7-8**] siblings suffer
from coronary artery disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vitals, afebrile, heart rate 80,
respiratory rate 20, blood pressure 112/68, PA pressure
58/27, oxygen saturation 100% on non rebreather.  General,
comfortable.  HEENT:  Extraocular movements intact,
conjunctiva clear, oropharynx clear.  Neck, brisk carotid
upstrokes.  Cardiovascular, regular rate and rhythm, normal
S1 and S2, no S3 or S4, no murmurs.  Lungs, good aeration
bilaterally, minimal crackles at the left base.  Abdomen,
positive bowel sounds, soft, nontender, non distended, no
hepatomegaly.  Groin, right groin reveals Swan and
intra-aortic balloon pump placement.  Extremities, no edema,
2+ DP/PT.

LABORATORY DATA:  At outside hospital, white blood cell count
7.8, hematocrit 35.8, platelet count 171,000, sodium 136,
potassium 4.6, chloride 100, CO2 23, BUN 45, creatinine 1.8,
glucose 180, calcium 8.7, albumin 3.2, AST 54, ALT 88.

At [**Hospital1 69**], white blood cell
count 8.9, hematocrit 34.6, platelet count 174,000, sodium
133, potassium 4.4, chloride 100, CO2 21, BUN 49, creatinine
1.4, glucose 227, ALT 79, AST 62, alkaline phosphatase 106,
total bilirubin 0.6, CK 87, albumin 3.3, calcium 8.4,
magnesium 2.1, phosphorus 5.2.

EKG, normal sinus rhythm, minimal left axis deviation, Q's in
leads 3 and AVF, LVH by criteria.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 72-year-old white male
with a history of ischemic cardiomyopathy and an EF of 14%
who presented to the [**Hospital3 417**] Hospital with congestive
heart failure and pneumonia.  The patient was diuresed and
entered into non sustained V tach and catheterization showing
90% in LAD with a stent placed complicated by failed V1 and 2
dissections as well as complicated by low cardiac index and
hypotension and placement of an intra-aortic balloon pump.

1.  Cardiovascular:  The patient had one stent placed in his
LAD and two stents were placed for dissection.  He was
treated with initial IV fluid hydration as per post cath
protocol.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed during the
procedure secondary to low EF and PA sats of 39%.  Following
admission to the CCU the patient underwent aggressive
diuresis with a Lasix drip, titrated as needed to maintain
appropriate urine output.  Anti-hypertensive meds were held
and a Heparin drip was initiated given the placement of the
intra-aortic balloon pump.  In addition, the patient was
maintained on telemetry with the intent to consult
electrophysiology consult after improvement of his basic
cardiac status.

The patient was continued on Aspirin and Plavix and
Integrilin was stopped as per protocol with Heparin being
initiated for the intra-aortic balloon pump.  Cholesterol
profile was checked which demonstrated a total cholesterol of
40, LDL of 79 and HDL of 28.  The patient was continued on
Pravachol which she was on for hypercholesterolemia as an
outpatient.

The patient was successfully diuresed with IV Lasix which was
titrated down to his usual daily dose of 40 mg po q d.  On
hospital day #3 the patient was started on Captopril 12.5 mg
which he tolerated well and following which the intra-aortic
balloon pump was weaned and removed.  ACE inhibitor dosing
was titrated to Captopril 12.5 mg tid and then switched over
to Zestril 5 mg po q d.  In addition, prior to discharge the
patient was started back on his beta blocker of Atenolol 25
mg po q d.  Aspirin and Plavix will also be continued as an
outpatient as well as Pravachol.

The patient remained hemodynamically stable and was
transferred to the floor where he did well.  He tolerated his
anti-hypertensive medications, maintaining his systolic blood
pressure in the 90's.  The issue of his non sustained
ventricular tachycardia was revisited by electrophysiology
who recommended that the patient follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 37577**]
within the next 1-2 weeks for initiation of an EPS study.

The patient was hemodynamically stable at time of discharge
and will follow-up with his cardiologist, Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient demonstrated significant
congestive heart failure at time of admission which responded
well to IV Lasix.  The patient was diuresed quickly at the
beginning of the hospital stay and his Lasix was titrated
down to his usual daily dose of 40 mg po q d.  The patient's
oxygen requirements were also titrated until he was able to
maintain saturations over 96% on room air.  At time of
discharge the patient had a normal pulmonary exam.  He
completed a 7 day course of Levaquin for a presumed pneumonia
which was started at the outside hospital.

3.  Renal:  The patient had an initial creatinine of 1.8
which was likely secondary to receiving 500 cc of dye during
his catheterization procedure.  The patient was treated with
two doses of Mucomyst and his creatinine fell to within
normal limits by the end of the hospital stay.

The patient maintained excellent urine output over the course
of the hospital stay and had no further renal issues.

4.  Infectious Disease:  The patient was diagnosed with a
pneumonia at the outside hospital and started on Levaquin.
This was continued to complete a 7 day course.  The patient
remained afebrile with a normal white blood cell count over
the course of the hospital stay and did not demonstrate any
other signs of infection.

5.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was placed on Protonix for
GI prophylaxis.  He quickly began to tolerate a regular diet
and had no further gastrointestinal issues over the course of
the hospital stay.

6