Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 75832**]
Admission Date: [**2101-4-4**]
Discharge Date: [**2101-4-21**]
Date of Birth:  [**2030-11-26**]
Sex:  M
Service:  VSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a morbidly obese man
with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, who
presented on [**2101-4-4**] with bilateral common iliac and
aortic aneurysms. He had been evaluated in [**2100-11-20**] for
this with a CTA of the chest, abdomen, pelvis, and lower
extremities with contrast. That showed him to have an
infrarenal aortic aneurysm at the level of the inferior
mesenteric artery origin measuring 4.7 x 4.3 cm in maximum
dimensions, as well as having a left common iliac artery
aneurysm measuring 2.7 x 2.7 cm and a right common iliac
aneurysm measuring 4.3 x 4.2 cm. They did not extend beyond
the iliac bifurcation on either side, and at this time, the
patient had been evaluated preoperatively at length and had
undergone an angiographic evaluation as well leading up to
his presentation for endovascular repair.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension; hypercholesterolemia;
diabetes mellitus, type 2; abdominal aortic aneurysm with
bilateral common iliac aneurysms; chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease - on home oxygen.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Albuterol; aspirin; citalopram; Lasix;
glyburide; Lantus; Levoxyl; metformin; metoprolol; NovoLog;
potassium chloride; simvastatin.

ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was noted to
have vital signs within normal limits and was afebrile. He
was normocephalic and atraumatic. Pupils were equally round
and reactive to light. The oropharynx was clear. He was
without lymphadenopathy or bruits. He was in a regular rate
and rhythm, without murmurs, rubs, or gallops. He was mildly
coarse bilaterally, with occasional expiratory wheezes. He
was nondistended, with normoactive bowel sounds, and he was
soft and nontender throughout, without rebound or guarding.
He had no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema, and he was noted to
be warm and well-perfused distally. His vascular exam was as
follows. He had no pulsatile abdominal mass and no abdominal
bruits. He had no neck bruits, and his pulse exam revealed 2+
brachial and radial pulses bilaterally. He had palpable
femorals bilaterally. He had palpable, but full popliteal
pulses bilaterally and palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior
tibial pulses bilaterally.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted on [**2101-4-4**]
and was brought to the operating room by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] and underwent endovascular aortic aneurysm
repair using an Excluder endograft and an aortic cuff
extender of 26 mm along with a right external iliac artery
extender cuff of 16 x 115 mm and a left external iliac
extender cuff of 16 x 95 mm and, in addition, received a
Palmaz 40-10 stent at that time. At the end of the case,
there was a repeat angiogram performed that showed patency of
both renal arteries and good apposition of the proximal stent
graft, with no signs of leak and with good flow noted through
both iliac limbs. The device was then removed. The patient
was Perclosed and brought to the intensive care unit at this
time. He remained intubated at this time and was noted to be
stable in the initial postoperative period. With his long
history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, attempts
were made to carefully wean this patient. He was extubated on
postoperative day 1; however, he ended up requiring
reintubation for a desaturation episode into the 70s along
with respiratory distress. At this time, he had a CTA of his
chest to evaluate this episode of acute hypoxia and
hypercarbia to rule out pulmonary embolism. There was no
pulmonary embolism on CTA and no signs of any dissection, but
there was noted to be multifocal consolidation and bibasilar
effusions as well as scattered subcentimeter pulmonary
nodules for which follow-up in 3 months with a chest CT was
recommended. Also at this time, an echocardiogram was
performed that showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of
45% to 50%, with mild, 1+ mitral regurgitation noted. Aortic
valve leaflets were noted to be mildly thickened, but no
aortic stenosis was present. So at this time, the patient
remained intubated and attempts at diuresis were commenced
with Lasix and Diamox and these attempts were continued
throughout the postoperative period.

Tube feeds were also started in the postoperative period and
were titrated up to a goal rate of 80, which he tolerated
well. These were given through a Dobhoff tube. The patient's
abdomen was noted to be soft, and he was having bowel
movements. On postoperative day 9, due to prolonged
respiratory failure and after a brief stint on the floor, the
patient had required reintubation and a tracheostomy was
performed by the thoracic surgery service on [**2101-4-13**].
This was performed without complication, with a #8 Portex
trach placed with the diagnosis of respiratory failure at
this time. From this point forward, the patient continued to
improve, however, did have an episode of fever on [**2101-4-17**] for which full cultures were sent, of which the blood
cultures are still pending and urine cultures came back
negative. However, sputum culture revealed 4+ gram-positive
cocci in pairs and clusters and 2+ gram-negative diplococci.
The sensitivities came back as these being oxacillin-
resistant, and the patient was started on vancomycin, which
he is to continue for 2 more weeks after discharge. With the
tracheostomy in place, he did continue to improve and at the
time of discharge was noted to be on a trach collar 12 hours
a day with vent requirement at night. He also had had a
speech and swallow evaluation formerly done with a green dye
swallow evaluation as well. He also tolerated a Passy-Muir
valve well at this time, without changes in vital signs or
secretion interference, and it was noted that he can safely
wear the valve for extended periods of time. The
recommendation at this time was for a diet of thick liquids
and ground solids, with his family to bring in his dentures,
and pills were noted to be able to be given whole with thin
liquids as well. So on [**2101-4-21**], the patient was deemed
ready for discharge. He had self-discharged his Dobhoff tube,
but with the speech and swallow evaluation, he was going to
be gradually advanced on his diet. He was to be continued on
Lasix 40 mg IV t.i.d. to continue off-loading fluid. He was
to continue vancomycin as well.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1. Abdominal aortic aneurysm.
2. Hypertension.
3. Hypercholesterolemia.
4. Diabetes mellitus.
5. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - on home oxygen.
6. Status post endovascular repair of abdominal aortic
    aneurysm.
7. Status post endovascular repair of bilateral common
    iliac artery aneurysms.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient will be discharged to a
rehabilitation facility and to follow up with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] as directed. Please call if there is any
worsening pain, fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, shortness
of breath, chest pain, or redness or drainage around the
wounds or if there are any questions or concerns. The patient
has passed a speech and swallow for thin liquids and pureed
solids.

RECOMMENDED FOLLOW-UP:  The patient is to have a CAT scan on
[**2101-5-4**]. That is scheduled for 2 p.m., and then the
patient is to see Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] the same day, [**2101-5-4**], at 3 p.m. His phone number is [**Telephone/Fax (1) 1237**].

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Regular insulin sliding scale;
aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.; atorvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.d.; Zantac
150 mg p.o. q.d.; levothyroxine 25 mcg p.o. q.d.; citalopram
20 mg p.o. q.d.; Dulcolax 10 mg suppository p.r.n. daily;
albuterol 1 to 2 puff inhalations q.4 hours; Sarna lotion
applied topically q.i.d. as needed; Tylenol 325 mg 1 to 2
tabs p.o. q.6 hours as needed; chlorhexidine gluconate
mouthwash b.i.d.; oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.6 hours p.r.n.;
glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.; warfarin 7.5 mg p.o. daily for
atrial fibrillation (goal INR 2 to 3) - this can be continued
for 1 month and then can be stopped if the patient continues
to be in sinus rhythm; metoprolol 25 mg 