Admission Date:  [**2108-12-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2109-1-10**]


Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an
81-year-old female with a history of coronary artery disease,
peripheral vascular disease, COPD, and CHF, who presented to
[**Hospital3 1443**] Hospital on [**2108-11-29**] with roughly one week
of shortness of breath, weight gain, fatigue.  There, she was
found to be in new onset atrial fibrillation and congestive
heart failure.  An aggressive rate control and diuresis were
attempted; however, her condition with regards to her oxygen
requirement continued to worsen.

A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed which revealed
no clot, aortic stenosis, with a valve area of 0.65 cm
squared and a valve gradient of approximately 15 mm.
Cardioversion was then attempted which required the patient
to be intubated due to worsening respiratory distress.  She
was transferred to [**Hospital1 18**] for valvuloplasty and further
evaluation and management.

Per outside hospital records, the patient also was febrile
with an increased leukocytosis with possible pulmonary
infiltrates.  She was treated with ceftriaxone, Zosyn,
Flagyl, moxifloxacin, with persistent fever.  Apparently, all
cultures there including sputum, blood, and urine cultures
were negative.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease, status post CABG times two, last
one performed in [**2103**].
2.  COPD, on home oxygen, 2 liters nasal cannula.
3.  CHF, EF of approximately 45-50%.
4.  Peripheral vascular disease.
5.  Chronic anemia.
6.  Depression.
7.  Status post cholecystectomy.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to morphine.

TRANSFER MEDICATIONS:
1.  Combivent.
2.  Protonix.
3.  Amiodarone.
4.  Lasix.
5.  Vancomycin.
6.  Moxifloxacin.
7.  Flagyl.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON TRANSFER:  Vital signs:  Temperature
102.0 rectally, blood pressure 133/42, heart rate 70, normal
sinus rhythm.  Ventilatory settings:  Assist control, tidal
volume 650, respiratory rate 16, 100% FI02, PEEP 18.
General:  The patient is intubated, sedated, and
unresponsive.  HEENT:  The pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light, anicteric sclerae.  Cardiovascular:
Regular rate and rhythm, [**Year (4 digits) 1105**]/VI systolic murmur,
crescendo/decrescendo, loudest at the right upper sternal
border, no rubs or gallops.  Lungs:  Crackles bilaterally to
the midlung fields.  No wheezes.  Abdomen:  Obese,
nondistended, hypoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  Right
groin without hematoma, trace pitting edema bilaterally.
Lower extremities:  Feet cool to the touch, 1+ dorsalis pedis
pulses bilaterally.  Neurological:  Toes upgoing.

LABORATORY STUDIES:  White count 14.2, hematocrit 23.9,
platelets 244,000.  Sodium 149, potassium 3.1, chloride 110,
C02 26, BUN 52, creatinine 1.4, glucose 138, calcium 8,
magnesium 2.0, phosphorus 4.1.  ALT 68, AST 43, CK 93,
troponin 1.4, albumin 2.7.  ABGs 7.36, PC02 50, P02 155.

EKG revealed a normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 75, normal
axis, PR slightly prolonged at 0.24, QRS, QT within normal
limits.  Q in [**Last Name (LF) 1105**], [**First Name3 (LF) **] depressions in V4 through V6.

Microbiology studies from the outside hospital include
sputum, urine, and blood cultures all negative.

Chest x-ray revealed bilateral infiltrates.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  AORTOVALVULOPLASTY:  The patient was
brought emergency to the Catheterization Laboratory with
successful valvuloplasty.

2.  ACUTE RESPIRATORY DISTRESS SYNDROME:  The patient had
difficulty with her respiratory requirements and difficulty
coming off the ventilator requiring high amounts of oxygen
content as well as difficulty coming off pressors for her low
blood pressure.

It was felt that this combination of respiratory distress was
from a cardiac as well as a pulmonary etiology.  A pulmonary
artery catheter was placed for further monitoring of her
hemodynamics which revealed a wedge pressure of 30 as well as
elevated right atrial and right ventricular pressures, right
atrial pressure being 23/18, right ventricular pressure being
55/12, pulmonary artery pressure being 60/29/

On hospital day number ten, she was transferred from the CCU
Service to the Medical Intensive Care Unit Service for
management of her acute respiratory distress syndrome despite
having a capillary wedge pressure of 20.

She was placed on Ardonette protocol and throughout her
hospital course, attempts were made to decrease the oxygen
content as well as the end-expiratory pressures without
success.  Tracheostomy was deferred secondary to her
critically ill state and it was felt that she would not
survive the procedure.

Serial chest x-rays revealed clearing of her acute
respiratory distress syndrome; however, given her
comorbidities and requiring aggressive fluid hydration, she
progressed to congestive heart failure, again requiring high
levels of ventilatory support, and was never successfully
taken off of mechanical ventilation.

3.  HYPOTENSION:  It was felt that the etiology of her
hypotension was again multifactorial with a decreased cardiac
output requiring multiple pressors as well as a distributive
shock picture from an infectious cause of an unknown source.

Throughout her CCU stay, she required Levophed,
Neo-Synephrine, and dobutamine.  Throughout her hospital
course trending into the Medical Intensive Care Unit course
she never was successfully weaned off of pressors, requiring
quadruple pressors at her time of expiration.

It was also felt that these pressors were causing an
exacerbation of her ischemic colitis; however, given her
extremely low hypotension she was unable to successfully wean
and remained on quadruple pressors at the time of expiration.

4.  FEVERS:  Since prior to admission, the patient was noted
to have fevers of unknown etiology despite multiple cultures
drawn.  She continued to experience multiple episodes of
fevers despite an unknown etiology despite an exhaustive
amount of cultures including her blood, urine, sputum, and
stool.

She was placed empirically on antibiotics despite a known
source.  During which time, she seemingly responded and her
fevers dropped.  However, approximately two weeks after
initiation of antibiotics, she continued to have fevers up to
103.0 Fahrenheit, despite broadening her antibiotic coverage
to include antifungals.  Multiple drugs were withdrawn for a
suspected drug fever, but she continued to experience fevers.

However, with the comorbid diagnosis of ischemic colitis, it
was felt that she was having translocation of bacteria from
her colon that may have been causing her fevers and was
continued to be covered broadly up to the time of her
expiration.

5.  ISCHEMIC COLITIS:  It was noted on hospital day number 21
that the patient had a significant increase in the amount of
her stool.  Her stool was Guaiac positive throughout her
hospital course but the appearance of her stool turned bright
red.

A Gastrointestinal consult was obtained for further
evaluation, at which time a CT of the abdomen was obtained
which revealed edema throughout her transverse, descending,
and sigmoid colon.  A flexible sigmoidoscopy was performed
which revealed changes that are consistent with ischemia.  At
this time, she was aggressively hydrated to maintain her
blood pressures above a mean of 60 for adequate perfusion.

Despite this strategy, however, she continued to have massive
amounts of stool output, approaching 4 liters per day, and
became increasingly acidotic despite aggressive bicarbonate
repletement.  Surgery was declined by both the patient's
family as well as the Surgery Team secondary to an extremely
high operative risk.

She continued to have high volumes of stool output up to the
time of her expiration.

6.  ANEMIA:  The patient was noted to have blood loss through
her GI tract and was supported with multiple units of packed
cells for blood transfusions to maintain a hematocrit above
30.

7.  ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY:  Random cortisol levels were drawn
throughout her hospital course; with a value of 12 it was
felt that she was adrenally insufficient and was started on
an empiric course of steroid replacement.  However, 