Admission Date:  [**2140-8-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2140-8-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2071-10-11**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 68-year-old
male with cardiac risk factors of age, male gender and
hypertension who was transferred from [**Hospital3 **] after
presenting there on the [**10-21**] at 2230 complaining of
half an hour of substernal chest pain.  He described the pain
as sharp associated with diaphoresis and radiating to the
left arm.  He reports having previous episodes of similar
chest pain which resolved spontaneously after a short period.
The patient denied shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting.
EKG at the outside hospital showed ST elevations in the
anterior leads in V1 and V2, lead 1 and lead aVL with
reciprocal depressions in leads 2, 3 and aVF, V5 through V6.
The patient was given aspirin and sublingual nitroglycerin
times three and started on heparin with bolus and Integrilin
with bolus, Lipitor 20 loaded and was transferred to the [**Hospital1 1444**] for emergent cardiac
catheterization.  A second electrocardiogram showed new left
bundle branch block, worsening ST elevations, found to have
multivessel disease in catheterization with intra-aortic
balloon pump (IABP) placed for high risk percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty.  Review of systems was
positive for chest pain and denied shortness of breath,
syncope or presyncope.

The patient was sent for emergent catheterization at the [**Hospital1 1444**] and was found to have a right
coronary artery/left anterior descending disease.  The
patient had a stent placed in the proximal LAD and the mid
RCA.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed as described
above.  A Temp wire was placed for left anterior fascicular
block/right bundle branch block.  In addition patient was
found to have a right pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of
10.  Angiography showed that the patient had a right dominant
heart and a left ventricular ejection fraction was not noted.
The patient was given [**Last Name (un) **]-coated stent.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Osteoarthritis.
3.  Seasonal allergies.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:
1.  Arthrotek 75 q. day.
2.  Diovan.
3.  Hydrochlorothiazide.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a history of tobacco use but
quit 25 years ago.  Reports occasional alcohol use.  Denies
intravenous drug abuse.  The patient is married.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Remarkable for coronary artery disease in
his father, mother and brother.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 93.4, heart rate 87, blood
pressure 148/89.  Mean arterial pressure 94, respiratory rate
19.  The intra-aortic balloon pump:  AD:  125.  AS:  126.
ED:  86.  M:  1:1.  General:  A comfortable male in no
apparent distress.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Oral mucosa
moist.  Neck supple.  No masses, no lymphadenopathy and no
jugular venous distention.  Lungs clear to auscultation
bilaterally with decreased breath sounds at the bases.
Question bibasilar rales.  Coronary:  Regular rate and rhythm
with normal S1, S2.  Question of S3.  No murmurs, rubs or
gallops appreciated.  Abdomen soft, non-tender,
non-distended, positive bowel sounds.  Left groin arterial
sheath in place with pressure dressing with blood soaked
through.  Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema, 2+
distal pulses.

LABORATORY EXAMINATION:  Notable for potassium of 3.2,
creatinine 1.2, glucose of 147, hematocrit of 39.0, CK 905.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  NO. 1:  Normal sinus rhythm 84, normal
axis and intervals, 1-[**Street Address(2) 1766**] elevations in leads V1 and V2,
1 and aVL and 1-[**Street Address(2) 1766**] depressions in 2, 3, aVF, V5 and V6.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  NO. 2:  Anterior ST elevation 1 mm in V1,
4-5 mm in V2 and 1-2 mm in V3.  Q's in V1, V2 and V3 and left
anterior descending with new left anterior fascicular and
right bundle branch block.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to the
Catheterization Laboratory as above with placement of the
proximal left anterior descending and mid right coronary
artery with the placement of an intra-aortic balloon pump to
maximize perfusion for the territory at risk.  A Temp wire
was placed due to a transient block and hemodynamics were
consistent with low normal filling pressures and a preserved
cardiac index.  On arrival to the Coronary Care Unit after
the procedure, there was continuous oozing at the
intra-aortic balloon pump size which progressed to arterial
bleeding around the sheath.  Given the hemodynamic
instability, the intra-aortic balloon pump was pulled and the
patient experienced a profound vagal episode with blood
pressures decreased down to 70/40 requiring the patient to
receive two amps of atropine and fluid resuscitation with
only minor effect.  The patient was started on a dopamine
drip.  The patient also experienced severe nausea and was
treated with ondansetron which relieved his nausea and
vomiting and subsequently the dopamine was shut off.  Later
during the morning the patient experienced an episode of
atrial fibrillation.  The patient had a stable rate and a
stable blood pressure.  At about 6:00 a.m. the patient
experienced another vagal episode with blood pressure in the
50-60's.  Patient was given continuous intravenous fluids,
another milligram of atropine times one with elevation of his
blood pressure.  The dopamine was increased again to 20 and
subsequently decreased off.  The patient was maintained on
intravenous fluids.  Pacing wires were kept intact and the
intra-aortic balloon pump was off.  Post-catheterization the
patient was maintained on Plavix 75, Integrilin, aspirin and
atorvastatin.  An echocardiogram performed on hospital day
two showed an estimated left ventricular ejection fraction of
25% with global hypokinesis, particularly in the anterior and
apical walls, positive aortic regurgitation and positive
atrial insufficiency.  On hospital day two the patient
spontaneously reconverted to normal sinus rhythm and
throughout the night experienced atrial fibrillation again
with a spontaneous reconversion back to normal sinus rhythm.
The patient was eventually weaned off pressors on hospital
day two and hematocrit showed that the patient had a decrease
in his hematocrit to 30.2.  Given the concern for bleed, a CT
scan of the pelvis and abdomen was performed which showed no
evidence of a retroperitoneal bleed.  The patient was
transfused one unit of packed red blood cells for a decrease
of his hematocrit to 31.4.  At this time the patient was
taken off the pressors and CK was trending down from a peak
of 4467 on hospital day two.  Integrilin was discontinued 18
hours after the catheterization procedure.  On hospital day
two the patient was started on captopril 6.25.

On hospital day three the patient was increased on his
captopril to 25 and a recent hematocrit was 33.1 after the
transfusion.  Given the concern for paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation, the patient was started on amiodarone 400 mg q.
day and was started on heparin for prophylaxis as well and
Coumadin 5 mg q. hs.  On hospital day three the patient
experienced a severe bilateral groin bleed and was found to
have a PTT of 100, supratherapeutic INR and the heparin was
shut off and the patient had a pressure dressing placed on
the groin with relief of the bleeding diathesis.  The patient
received another unit of packed red blood cells for an
hematocrit of 28.8 with a return to 29 on hospital day four
without any further episodes of groin bleed off the heparin.
The patient complained of some shortness of breath and was
found to have some mild congestive heart failure for which he
improved and his oxygen saturation was 92% to 95% and
improvement of his shortness of breath with Lasix 20 times
two and improvement of his orthopnea.  On hospital day four
the patient was switched from captopril to lisinopril and
from metoprolol to carvedilol and the amiodarone was
discontinued.  Electrophysiology staff was consulted given
his history of atrial fibrillation in house although the
patient did not have atrial fibrillation 48 hours after his
episode and a signal averaging EKG was performed.
Re