Admission Date:  [**2169-1-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2169-2-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2102-5-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Vascular

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient underwent an
abdominal computed tomography for anticipation for
intravascular abdominal aortic repair and determined she was
not a candidate.  She is now admitted for open abdominal
aortic iliac aneurysm repair.

An outside cardiac workup included a cardiac catheterization
for a positive stress test.  She underwent cardiac
catheterization and a angioplasty with stent placement of the
circumflex artery on [**2168-12-30**].  She now returns for
elective revascularization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  History of cerebrovascular accident in [**2167-11-5**];
which presented with left-sided weakness (from which she has
recovered).
 2.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm since [**2167-11-5**].
 3.  History of coronary artery disease; status post silent
myocardial infarction by electrocardiogram.
 4.  Atrophic left kidney.
 5.  Echocardiogram on [**2168-10-10**] demonstrated a left
ventricular hypertrophy with infrabasilar hypokinesis and an
ejection fraction of 45%, with moderate mitral regurgitation,
left atrial enlargement, and inferobasilar aneurysm.
 6.  Type III aortic dissection; treated medically.
 7.  Questionable renal artery stenosis.
 8.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; on home oxygen as
needed.
 9.  Hypertension.
10.  Diverticulosis.
11.  Rectal polyps.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
 2.  Sublingual nitroglycerin as needed.
 3.  Imdur 60 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 4.  Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q.d.
 5.  Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d.
 6.  Verapamil-SR 240 mg p.o. q.d.
 7.  Hydralazine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 8.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq p.o. q.d.
 9.  Albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d.
10.  Celexa 10 mg p.o. q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a widow.  She lives in [**Location 11269**]
with her three sons.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A Duplex of the carotids showed moderate
plaque in both carotids bilaterally, but no hemodynamically
significant lesions.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted to the
preoperative holding area on [**2169-1-30**].  She underwent
aortobifemoral bypass surgery with [**Hospital1 **]-iliac artery ligation.
The patient tolerated the procedure well.  She required 4
units of packed red blood cells intraoperatively with 200 cc
of cellsaver.  An epidural catheter was placed
intraoperatively for postoperative analgesic control.

The patient was transferred to the Postanesthesia Care Unit
in stable condition.  She was transferred to the Vascular
Intensive Care Unit for continued monitoring and care.

On postoperative day one, there were low oxygen saturations
with blood gas results of 7.31/43/56/23/-4.  X-ray results
congestive failure.  The patient's hematocrit was 30.6.
Blood urea nitrogen was 26.  Creatinine was 1.7.

The Renal Service was consulted on postoperative day two
because of increasing creatinine.  It was felt this patient's
oliguria was prerenal in origin secondary to hypertension
intraoperative and a singular functioning kidney.  Their
recommendations were to check eosinophils, C3-C4 compliments.
A renal ultrasound with Doppler to rule out obstructive
disease.  Keep systolic blood pressure between 120s and 130s.
Keep hematocrit greater than 30.  No nonsteroidals, ACE
inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers until resolution
of elevated creatinine and return of normal urine volume.
Medicines for creatinine clearance of 20 to 30.  The
patient's oxygen saturation continued to remain in the 80s
and 90s with albuterol nebulizers and nonrebreather at 6
liters.  Questionable congestive heart failure.  The
peripheral arterial line was discontinued.  An oxygen wean
was begun, and she was diuresed.  She remained in the
Vascular Intensive Care Unit for continued pulmonary care and
monitoring.  The epidural was discontinued, and oral
analgesics were begun.

By postoperative day four, the patient was passing flatus.
her diet was advanced to clear liquids.  Her hematocrit
drifted to 27.8 (down from 29).  Her creatinine showed
improvement from 2 to 1.9 with a blood urea nitrogen of 35.
There was improvement in her oxygenation.  Intravenous Lasix
dosing was decreased from 100 mg intravenously q.6h. to 100
mg intravenously q.12h with a fluid restriction to one liter
per day.  Her free water deficit equaled two liters allow the
patient to drink to thirst.  Replace potassium and magnesium.

Physical Therapy saw the patient and felt that she would
require rehabilitation status post discharge.

By postoperative day four, her creatinine was back to
baseline of 1.6.  Her hematocrit remained stable at 29.2.
She was tolerating oral intake.  Her lines were discontinued
and was transferred to the regular nursing floor.  The
[**Hospital 228**] transfer to the floor was delayed because of
respiratory status.  Arterial blood gas results were
7.54/33/125/29 and 6.  Aggressive diuresis continued and
aggressive pulmonary care was continued.  Her Lasix dosing
was decreased to 80 mg intravenously, and this was converted
to 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.   Recommendations from the Renal Service
were to keep her on -500,000 cc daily.  The Renal Service
signed off.  The patient continued to show excellent
diuresis.  Her hematocrit was 32.6.  Blood urea nitrogen was
26.  Creatinine was 1.1.

The patient was transferred to the Trauma Surgical Intensive
Care Unit on [**2169-2-8**] for continued poor oxygenation.
Aggressive pulmonary care was continued.  The patient was
nothing by mouth.  She was continued on Levaquin and Flagyl.
An arterial line was placed.

Over the next 48 hours, the patient remained in the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit for continued pulmonary monitoring, and
she was transferred to the regular nursing floor on [**2169-2-9**].  Her creatinine was 1.7.  Blood urea nitrogen was
37.  Hematocrit was 29.6.

The patient's creatine phosphokinases and troponin levels
were flat.  Electrocardiogram was without changes.  She was
continued on Unasyn for questionable pneumonia.

The Renal Service was consulted again on [**2169-2-9**].
Their recommendations were to continue to hold her diuretics
for prerenal azotemia.  The nephropathy secondary to contrast
had resolved, and treat her hyponatremia secondary to free
water loss and diuretics with D-5-W at 100 cc per hour times
24 hours.

The Pulmonary Service was consulted regarding the patient's
pulmonary status.  Their recommendations were to begin
ambulation to chair with Physical Therapy and Occupational
Therapy.  Consider studies for rule out pulmonary embolus.
Keep her oxygen saturations at no greater than 93%.

The patient was returned to the Vascular Intensive Care Unit
from the Surgical Intensive Care Unit on postoperative day 11
(which was [**2169-2-10**]) for pulmonary embolism.   A
computed tomography of the chest was obtained which showed
thoracic aortic dissection and aneurysmal dilatation which
extended to the MH portion of the intra-abdominal aorta.
This was consistent with the patient's known of aortic
aneurysm.  The left lobe was noted to be collapsed.  This
could be related to mucous plug or other obstructive process
correlating with the patient's clinical examination.  It
should be noted that patchy peripheral opacities were noted;
mostly in the left upper lobe which were secondary to an
acute inflammatory process.

The patient continued to show slow progressive improvement in
her pulmonary status.  She was transferred to the regular
nursing floor on [**2169-2-12**].

The computed tomography, per the Pulmonary Service,
determined the etiology of her hypoxia were related to both
her underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and her
lower lobe changes, and it was most imperative that the
patient do incentive spirometry and aggressive physical
therapy.  If the left lower lobe does not open up with these
measures, then would have to consider a bronchoscopy.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  By postoperative day fourteen, the
patient continued to show improvement and stabilization of
her respiratory function.  Her skin clips 