Admission Date: [**2111-6-14**]        Discharge Date: [**2111-6-25**]

Date of Birth:  [**2036-12-27**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 74-year-old female with a
history of coronary artery disease and aortic stenosis, as
well as known three-vessel disease presented with mid chest
pain occasionally that radiated to her back. She had been
worked up with cardiac catheterization and was awaiting
surgical options prior to be examined by the Cardiothoracic
Surgery team. She had been told to go to the Emergency Room
in the event of pain. On examination, her review of systems
was negative with no shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea and some dry cough.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypercholesterolemia.

Hypertension.

Coronary artery disease.

Severe aortic stenosis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Status post left cataract extraction.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. Lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. q d.
3. Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q d.
4. Iron supplements.
5. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q d.


PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On examination, she is an elderly
woman who spoke with broken English. She was in no acute
distress. Her heart was a regular rate and rhythm. Her lungs
were clear bilaterally. Her abdominal examination was benign.
Her extremities were warm and well perfused.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her cardiac catheterization from [**5-/2111**]
showed the following:  An ejection fraction of 84 percent, 80
percent OM-1 lesion, 90 percent distal right coronary artery
lesion, 30 percent distal left main lesion, as well as
lesions of the left anterior descending coronary artery and
first diagonal. It also showed moderate to severe aortic
stenosis with 0.9 cm sq aortic valve area and a 40 mm
gradient. Ejection fraction was approximately 42 percent on
the Persantine scan. Her chest x-ray showed no active
cardiopulmonary issues.

Preoperative laboratories on admission were as follows:
White blood cell count 5.9, hematocrit 30.2, platelet count
195,000, PT 13, PTT 24.6, INR 1.2, sodium 143, potassium 3.7,
chloride 107, CO2 of 24, BUN 11, creatinine 0.9, blood sugar
165. Unremarkable cardiac enzymes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The assessment was that her anatomical and
her symptoms both led to consistency with a probable
operative need for cardiac surgical intervention. The patient
was placed on low-dose intravenous nitroglycerin, heparin, to
rule out for myocardial infarction and the plan was discussed
with [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5662**], M.D. The patient was initially seen
by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] with the Cardiac Surgery team. The patient was
also seen by Cardiology who agreed to keep her on intravenous
heparin at that time and to also address her anemia by guaiac
stools and persuing possible workup of that diagnosis also.
The patient did rule out for a myocardial infarction. No
Plavix was given at the time given the possibility of going
to cardiac surgical intervention. The patient was examined
again by [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5662**], M.D. for evaluation of aortic
valve replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting.
Additional labs were drawn including repeat chest x-ray and
liver function tests. The patient was also started on an
Integrelin drip in addition to the heparin drip.

On [**2111-6-7**], the patient underwent aortic valve replacement
with a 21 mm mosaic porcine valve and a coronary artery
bypass grafting times two with the left internal mammary
artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery and a
vein graft to the right coronary artery/posterior descending
artery. The patient was transferred to the Cardiothoracic
Intensive Care Unit in stable condition on titrated propofol
and phenylephrine drips.

On the day of the operation in the evening, the patient was
also started on a nitroprusside drip for better blood
pressure control. The first set of postoperative labs showed
potassium of 4.7, BUN 11, creatinine 0.7. The patient
remained on insulin drip, Nipride drip. The plan to wean the
patient was started with the patient being extubated shortly
after midnight in the early hours of [**2111-6-17**].

On postoperative day one, the patient had been extubated, was
started on aspirin and Plavix, as well as continued
perioperative vancomycin. T-max was 100.4 with a T-current of
99.1, CVP 18, PA pressures of 33/16 with a cardiac index of
3.28, blood pressure 135/67 in sinus rhythm at 96 with a
reasonable blood gas. The patient was on 50 percent face
mask.

Postoperatively, white blood cell count was 10, hematocrit
32.4, platelet count 152,000, INR 1.4, sodium 140, potassium
5.3 which declined to 4.8 during the day, BUN 13, creatinine
0.9 with a blood sugar of 111. The patient was alert and
oriented. The heart was regular rate and rhythm. The patient
had some bilateral rhonchi. The abdomen was soft, nontender
and nondistended. The sternum was stable. Incisions were
clean, dry and intact with no edema. Upper full extremities
were warm. Diet was advanced. The Foley remained in place.

On postoperative day two, the patient was started on beta
blockade and Lasix for diuresis with a blood pressure of
140/66. The patient's saturation was 96 percent on three
liters nasal cannula with a creatinine of 1.0 and a
hematocrit of 29.8. The patient's examination was
unremarkable other than slightly hypoactive bowel sounds. The
patient also received some albuterol nebulizers for the
rhonchi and continued on Lasix diuresis. The patient was also
seen by Case Management on [**6-18**]/1004.

On postoperative day three, the patient had some low urine
output and received a bolus. The patient also complained of
some abdominal and back pain. The patient was on a Neo-
Synephrine drip at 0.5 mcg/kg/minute at the time with the
heart rate in sinus rhythm at 90 and a blood pressure of
110/60 with saturation of 98 percent on two liters nasal
cannula. The liver function tests were as follows:  AST 23,
ALT 15, alkaline phosphatase 54. The patient's T-max was
100.0. The examination was unremarkable. The patient was
started empirically on levofloxacin 500 mg every day. The
patient received one unit of packed red blood cells for the
low hematocrit. Blood cultures, urine cultures, urinalysis,
as well as sputum cultures were sent. The Lasix was
discontinued and the Foley was discontinued.

On postoperative day four, the patient had a ten-beat run of
ventricular tachycardia. The patient was on Neo-Synephrine
with a heart rate in sinus rhythm at 75. Laboratory work was
relatively stable with a potassium of 4.2, BUN 13, creatinine
0.7. The patient had a T-max of 99.5. The examination was
unremarkable with the heart in regular rate and rhythm. The
incisions were looking good. The lungs were clear bilaterally
with one plus edema in bilateral lower extremities, but
appeared to be well perfused. The patient was on day two of
levofloxacin for the sputum that she had produced awaiting
all culture results.

On postoperative day five, the patient weaned off Neo-
Synephrine. Urine culture and sputum culture were both no
growth to date. Blood culture and Clostridium difficile were
both still pending from [**2111-6-19**]. Hematocrit rose to 31.8.
T-max was only 98.2. The Foley had remained in place pending
results of the urine culture. The Foley was then discontinued
and the patient was transferred out to the floor. The patient
continued on aspirin and Plavix and also received Dulcolax.

On postoperative day six, there were no events overnight. The
patient remained in sinus rhythm with a blood pressure of
125/54 with a stable hematocrit at 29.9, creatinine 0.9. The
patient had some decreased breath sounds. The heart was
regular rate and rhythm. The sternum was stable with no
erythema. Abdominal examination was benign with positive
bowel sounds. She still had one plus edema in the peripheral
lower extremities. The patient was on day four of a five day
levofloxacin course. The patient was stable. Cardiac diet was
advanced. The patient was transferred out to the floor on
[**2111-6-22**].

The patient was seen again on [**2111-6-23**] by Case M