Admission Date:  [**2128-5-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2128-5-15**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an
83-year-old white male with a history of coronary artery
disease, status post CABG in [**2112**] with the following anatomy,
LIMA to LAD, SVG to diagonal, SVG to OM, SVG to RCA, who
presented for elective cardiac catheterization as a part of
preoperative evaluation for AAA of 6.2 cm by abdominal
ultrasound.  The patient has been having symptoms of
exertional angina but none at rest prior to this admission.
During cardiac catheterization, the patient was found to have
right atrial pressure of 7, right ventricular pressure of
45/10, pulmonary artery pressure of 48/23, pulmonary
capillary wedge pressure (CWP) of 24, and cardiac index of
1.8.  The patient was found to have a patent LIMA graft to
LAD but had an occluded SVG to PDA with 95% occlusion
stenting of which was unsuccessful and resulted in no distal
flow. The patient was noted to have collaterals from left to
right.

During the cardiac catheterization the following stenting was
done, right subclavian artery was found to have 90% stenosis
and was successfully stented with good flow to right
vertebral.  Left subclavian artery was found to have 70%
stenosis at the origin of left vertebral artery.  During the
stenting, left vertebral artery was lost but good flow was
maintained through the LIMA graft.  The patient was chest
pain-free during the procedure and was transferred to the
Cardiac Intensive Care Unit for observation.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  The patient
had a temperature of 97.2, pulse 64, blood pressure 143/71,
respirations 17.  Oxygen saturation 98% on 2 liters by nasal
cannula.  His Swan-Ganz catheter readings were right atrial
pressure of 5, right ventricular pressure 30/5, pulmonary
artery pressures 30/14, and the catheter was discontinued.
General:  The patient was comfortable and lying in bed in no
apparent distress.  HEENT:  Pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  The extraocular muscles
were intact.  The oropharynx was clear.  Neck:  Supple.
There was no jugular venous distention.  No bruits noted.
Pulmonary:  The patient's breath sounds were clear to
auscultation anteriorly.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and
rhythm, normal S1, S2, distant heart sounds, no murmurs,
rubs, or gallops noted. Abdomen:  Bowel sounds were present.
There were notable pulsations from the abdominal aortic
aneurysm.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended,
without organomegaly.  Extremities:  Somewhat cold but
without clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Pulses were equal, 2+
dorsalis pedis and radial pulses bilaterally.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  On admission, the patient had a
white count of 13.4, hemoglobin 14.4, hematocrit 45.9,
platelets 138,000.  Sodium 140, potassium 3.4, BUN 29,
creatinine 1.5.  Arterial blood gas showed a pH of 7.43, PC02
32, P02 67, phosphorus 3.3, magnesium 2.0.

The patient's EKG showed old left bundle branch block.  First
set of CK was 68 on admission.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient
was transferred to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit for
observation following a complicated catheterization.  The
catheterization was complicated by the loss of a graft
supplying PDA, although the patient was chest pain-free
during the cardiac catheterization, the patient did
experience left arm pain which was known to be his anginal
equivalent.  At rest, upon transfer to the Cardiac Intensive
Care Unit, the patient was put on nitroglycerin drip for 30
minutes resulting in resolution of arm pain.  The patient's
anginal equivalent at the time was attributed to a spasm of
LIMA which was essentially the only artery supplying the bulk
of his heart.  The patient's enzymes were cycled and peaked
at 700.  The patient was started on aspirin, Plavix,
Metoprolol, and fluvastatin.  The patient remained stable and
was transferred to the regular nursing floor.  ACE inhibitor
was started as well as the patient's home dose of Lasix.

Upon transfer to the regular medical floor, the day following
the transfer, the patient experienced several episodes of
rest pain as well as a short run of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia (NSVT), eight beats.  During the run of NSVT, the
patient was asymptomatic and asleep.  Even though this was
still within 48 hours of myocardial infarction, the patient
was considered to be at significant risk for sudden cardiac
death given the known ejection fraction of less than 15%.
The risks of sudden cardiac death were explained to the
patient but the patient declined having an intervention done
such as risk stratification with EP study.

It was decided to optimize his medical management.  His
metoprolol was increased as tolerated by his blood pressure
and the goal was to keep him symptom-free.  The patient was
also put on nitroglycerin patch which helped his symptoms.
The following night, the patient had three episodes of rest
pain in both arms and became hypotensive with systolic blood
pressures around 75.  The patient was given sublingual
nitroglycerin which resulted in resolution of pain.

The patient was transferred back to the Cardiac Intensive
Care Unit, was put on a nitroglycerin drip.  At the same
time, it was found that the patient had a hematocrit drop
from 42 the day prior to 35 the morning of the transfer back
to the CCU in order to rule out an internal bleed in a
patient with a known AAA.  Abdominal ultrasound as well as
noncontrast CTs were performed that showed no retroperitoneal
bleed and no contained bleed.  The patient had an
echocardiogram to rule out cardiac tamponade that showed no
pericardial effusion but severe global hypokinesis with an
ejection fraction of less than 15%, atrial septal defect, and
3+ MR.

While the patient's cardiac enzymes were trending down after
the cardiac catheterization, there was a small bump in
cardiac enzymes at this time indicating more myocardial
damage.  While in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit, the
patient has remained chest pain-free.  Both the patient and
the family were informed of different options including going
back for cardiac catheterization to find out whether the LIMA
graft was the source of the patient's symptoms; however, the
patient expressed his wishes not to proceed with cardiac
catheterization.  This was in agreement with the patient's
wife and the rest of his family.  Instead, the patient opted
for medical management of his coronary artery disease.

On the morning of [**2128-5-15**], the patient experienced a
pulseless ventricular tachycardia arrest, 200 joule shock was
delivered and the patient's rhythm was converted to pulseless
electrical activity.  The patient was given several rounds of
epinephrine and atropine and sinus rhythm was returned but
the patient's blood pressure was kept up on a dopamine drip.
During the code, an arterial blood gas was drawn which showed
a pH of 6.99, PC02 46, and P02 of 66.  The patient was
intubated and put on a ventilator.  Bicarbonate drip was
started and initial laboratories showed lactate of 11
followed by lactate of 14.  The patient's calcium was 6.5,
free calcium of 1.01, and the patient was given calcium
bicarbonate.  The patient's arterial blood gas after several
hours on a ventilator was 7.1, pH 7.12, PC02 of 36, and P02
of 69.  The patient's hematocrit and coagulation profile was
stable.

At this point, a discussion with the family was initiated.
The family was informed of the patient's clinical condition.
The prognosis as well as different options were addressed.
While the family was given time to discuss by themselves and
come up with a treatment option, the patient suffered another
cardiac arrest.  The patient's systolic blood pressure while
on dopamine dropped to mean arterial pressure of 40s-50s and
the patient became severely bradycardiac.  Two rounds of
epinephrine and Atropine were administered and perfusing
rhythm was returned.  The patient's family was informed of
the events and it was there decision to make the patient
DNR/DNI.

Shortly afterwards, the patient suffered another pulseless
ventricular tachycardia arrest, after which