Admission Date: [**2125-12-3**]        Discharge Date: [**2125-12-14**]


Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Right carotid stenosis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 86-year-old gentleman
who gives a history of a left TIA 1 year ago. Symptoms
manifested as left upper extremity weakness. He was admitted
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] Hospital. He was found to have an 80% stenosis
of the right coronary artery. The patient consulted Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 1391**]. The patient denies a history of stroke or further
transient ischemic attacks. The patient denies dizziness,
memory loss, facial droop, speech changes, history of
myocardial infarction. The patient is also known to have
renal insufficiency, and is status post renal artery stenting
in the past. The patient also has a history of gout, for
which he is on allopurinol for. The patient now presents for
elective right carotid endarterectomy and a renal angiogram
with potential renal artery stenting. The patient also admits
to claudication. He cannot walk further than 100 feet, with
improvement in his symptoms with rest. He denies any rest
pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Illnesses include hypertension,
hyperlipidemia, gout, renal artery stenosis, status post
angioplasty with stenting, peripheral vascular disease with
claudication.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Right herniorrhaphy, remote.

ALLERGIES:  No known allergies. IBUPROFEN causes GI upset.

MEDICATIONS:  Include nifedipine 70 mg daily, Lipitor 40 mg
daily, multivitamin daily, allopurinol 100 mg daily,
metoprolol 50 mg b.i.d., Nexium 40 mg daily, Detrol long
acting 4 mg daily, aspirin 81 mg daily, Catapres-2-TTS 1
q.72h..

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies tobacco, alcohol or drug
use. He has been a widow for the last 5 years. He lives
alone.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Positive for coronary artery disease and
diabetes.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive for claudication and difficulty
with urination.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs are stable. General
appearance is an alert, white male in no acute distress.
HEENT exam is unremarkable. There is a carotid bruit on the
right. Chest is clear to auscultation with old sternotomy
scar incision. Heart is a regular rate and rhythm with a 2/6
systolic ejection murmur at the base. Abdomen is
unremarkable. Extremities are without edema, ulcers or nail
changes. Pulse exam shows radial pulses are palpable
bilaterally. Femoral pulses are palpable bilaterally.
Dorsalis pedis are absent bilaterally, and the posterior
tibials are dopplerable signals bilaterally. Neurological
exam reveals he is oriented. It is a nonfocal exam. Cranial
nerves are intact. EOMs are intact. Pupils are equal, round
and reactive to light and accommodation. Motor/sensory is
intact. Strength is [**4-6**] upper and lower. There is no drift.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted the night prior to
anticipated surgery. He underwent a right carotid
endarterectomy with Dacron patch angioplasty on [**2125-12-4**]. He tolerated the procedure well. He was extubated in
the OR. He was neurologically intact. He was hemodynamically
stable and was transferred to the PACU for continued
monitoring and care.

On the day of surgery, in the PACU, the patient was confused.
He had a low urine output. He was fluid resuscitated with
excellent results. His FENA was consistent with prerenal
changes. The patient remained in the PACU until urine output
improved.

On postoperative day #1, his home medications were restarted.
He diet was advanced. The arterial line was discontinued. He
was weaned off the nitroglycerin for systolic hypertension.
He was hydrated and given Mucomyst pre angio, and underwent
an angio on [**2125-12-5**]. He had a renal artery stent
stenosis angioplasty. He developed hypertension, requiring
nitroglycerin. Cardiac enzymes were sent, which were
negative. The day after angio, the patient desaturated to the
low 90s. He required a 50% face mask. His chest x-ray showed
congestive failure. His ABG on 4 liters nasal cannula showed
an 86% saturation. His blood gas was 7.42/33/40. A Foley was
placed. IV fluids were hep-locked. Placed on a nonrebreather.
He was given Lasix 20 mg IV. The blood gases were repeated
with improvement. Continued to monitor him during this period
of time. He remained in the VICU.

He required continued face mask on postoperative day #3 and
continued diuresis. His BUN did bump during this period.
Peaked at 2.1 from 1.6 with return to baseline. The patient
was transferred to the ICU on [**2125-12-8**] because of
persistent hypoxia. His white count went from 14 to 16. His
hematocrit remained stable at 30. BUN was 97. Creatinine was
2.0. Diuresis was continued. He remained in the SICU.
Neurologically, he remained intact.

On postoperative day #5, enzymes demonstrated a peak CPK was
45, MBs were not done, troponins were 0.61 and 0.78.
Cardiology was requested to see the patient in regards to the
elevated troponins, in the setting of chronic renal
insufficiency. Recommendations were that this was related to
his myocardial demand and slow clearance of the troponin. An
echo was obtained. Echo findings demonstrated moderate left
atrial enlargement and a dilated right atrium. The left
ventricle showed symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy with
normal cavity size and systolic function with an EF of 55%.
There was normal regional left ventricular systolic function.
There was no resting LVOT gradient. The right ventricle was
normal in chamber size and free wall motion. The aortic
valve, there was a bioprosthetic aortic prosthesis. The AVR
was well seeded. The leaflet disk motion and transvalvular
gradients were within range. There was no aortic
insufficiency. The mitral valve was mildly thickened. Mitral
valve leaflets with moderate mitral valvular calcification
with calcified tips of papillary muscles with mild-to-
moderate mitral insufficiency. This could be worse. It is
difficult to tell because of acoustic shadowing, and could be
under estimated. The tricuspid valve was normal with mild
regurgitation. Moderate pulmonary systolic hypertension.
There was a trivial physiologic pericardial effusion.

The patient was transferred to the VICU for continued
monitoring and care on [**2125-12-9**] after obtaining the
echo results. Gentle diuresis was continued with continued
improvement in the patient's oxygenation. The patient was
evaluated by physical therapy. The patient will require rehab
to safely return to previous functional status, since he
lives alone.

On postoperative day #7, the patient remains in the VICU with
intermittent episodes of confusion as to time and place. We
will feel this is related to his prolonged hospitalization.
Electrolytes and hematocrit are unremarkable.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  The patient will be discharged to
rehab once medically stable and bed is available.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Include right carotid stenosis,
symptomatic; restenosis of the renal artery stenting; status
post angioplasty with a stent on [**2125-12-3**]; history of
hypertension; history of gout; history of renal artery
stenosis; status post angioplasty with stenting, remote;
history of peripheral vascular disease with claudication;
status post right inguinal hernia repair, remote; history of
hyperlipidemia, on a statin; history of chronic renal
insufficiency, baseline creatinine of 1.6; history of
postoperative confusion; postoperative congestive heart
failure, compensated.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Include clonidine 0.2 mg per 24-hour
patch weekly, q. Wednesday; tolterodine 2-mg tablets twice a
day; allopurinol 100 mg daily; nifedipine 90 mg sustained
release daily; Protonix 40 mg daily; atorvastatin 40 mg
daily; aspirin 325 mg daily; Plavix 75 mg daily; hydralazine
25 mg q.6h.; Colace 100 mg b.i.d.; bisacodyl suppository 10
mg p.r.n.; metoprolol tartrate 50 mg b.i.d..

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient should follow up with
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] as directed once discharged from rehab.

MAJOR SURGICAL OR INVASIVE PROCEDURES:  Carotid
endarterectomy with Dacron patch; angioplasty on [**2125-12-4**]; renal artery stent angioplasty on [**2125-12-5**].



                       