Admission Date:  [**2105-8-24**]     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2075-6-29**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

ADDENDUM:  Addendum to Hospital Course.

6.  PULMONARY:  After the patient was called out from Medical
Intensive Care Unit on first occasion, the patient was
satting well in the 90s on room air and did not have any
respiratory complaints.  However, one night the patient
desaturated to 86% oxygen saturation on room air and required
nonrebreather mask to saturate at 100%.  At that time, the
patient spiked a fever to 102.

A chest x-ray was done which showed a subtle diffuse
reticular nodular pattern.  The patient was placed on oxygen.
The patient did well that day. The next day, the patient
again desaturated, this time to 68% on room air requiring a
nonrebreather mask for 100% oxygen.  At that time the patient
also spiked to 104.8.  A chest x-ray was repeated which this
time showed a rapidly progressive diffuse interstitial
pattern.  The patient had a CT angiogram at that time to rule
out a pulmonary embolus which was negative for pulmonary
emboli but which showed ground-glass opacities and nodules
throughout the lungs.  The patient was sent back to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit for fear that early acute
respiratory distress syndrome; however, the patient did well
in the Medical Intensive Care Unit with no further
intervention.  No further antibiotics were placed.  The
patient's was not intubated.  The patient was continued on a
nonrebreather with improvements in oxygen saturations.  The
patient was sent back to the floor satting in the 90s on 40%
face mask.

Pulmonary was consulted.  The etiology for unexplained
desaturations and high temperature was unknown; possible
inhalation injury, possible illicit substance use.  The
patient continued to do well.  However, the patient had a
repeat chest x-ray which showed a persistent reticular
nodular pattern.  It was decided for the patient to have a
high-resolution chest CT which showed worsening of the
ground-glass opacities and nodular pattern bilaterally.  The
patient was sent for bronchoscopy on [**9-16**] with
bronchoalveolar lavage study.  Bronchoalveolar lavage studies
were still pending.  Open lung biopsy was being contemplated,
but as the patient was clinically improving (now satting 95%
on room air and ambulating without desaturations) open lung
biopsy will most likely not be done.

7.  PSYCHIATRY:  The patient with a history of
bipolar/depression on admission.  The patient also with a
history of chronic narcotic use.  Psychiatry was consulted to
evaluate best management of her depression and bipolar and
possible adjustments in pain medications.  Psychiatry agreed
that the patient was not being adequately managed for her
depression and bipolar.  The patient's Luvox was decreased
with a goal to start Wellbutrin.  At this point, the patient
is currently being tapered off her Luvox and when Luvox gets
to 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., the patient will be started on
Wellbutrin with a target of 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.   The patient
was to follow up with Psychiatry here at [**Hospital1 346**].

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION/FOLLOWUP:  On discharge, the patient
will be discharged with [**Hospital6 **] services
for intravenous antibiotics, and other J-tube feeds, and
medications.  The patient will be followed by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
at the [**Hospital6 733**] Clinic, appointment pending.
The patient will also follow up at the [**Hospital1 190**] Infectious Disease Clinic, [**Hospital 6283**]
Clinic, and Psychiatry Clinic.  Date of discharge is unknown
at this time.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  The patient's condition on discharge
was stable.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 10038**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2439**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2105-9-17**]  15:50
T:  [**2105-9-17**]  19:40
JOB#:  [**Job Number 23321**]
