Admission Date:  [**2123-12-25**]     Discharge Date:  [**2124-1-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2070-11-30**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Cardiothoracic

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 53-year-old
woman who had onset of severe thoracic pain two days prior to
admission while she was away in [**State 531**].  She returned home
to [**Location (un) 86**] from [**State 531**] due to the chest pain associated with
nausea and vomiting.  Since that time the nausea and vomiting
had subsided; however, the patient chest pain remained
constant over the past 48 hours.

On examination in the Emergency Room the patient was found to
profoundly bradycardic and diaphoretic.  Her
electrocardiogram revealed 30-degree AV block with a rate in
the 40s, and a systolic blood pressure of 110.  At that time
she was brought to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for
cardiac catheterization and temporary pacemaker placement.
Please see the catheterization report for full details.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   (Past medical history is significant
for)
1.  Coronary artery disease.
2.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Cholesterol.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications prior to admission
included atenolol, Zestril, aspirin, and Glucophage.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory work on
admission revealed a white blood cell count of 22.8,
hematocrit 38, platelets 376.  Sodium 131, potassium 4.4,
chloride 93, bicarbonate 22, blood urea nitrogen 18,
creatinine 1.1, glucose of 520.  PT was 13.8, PTT was 24.5,
INR of 1.3.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   The patient's
physical examination prior to admission in the Emergency Room
revealed a heavy-set woman.  Neurologically, alert and
oriented.  Head, ears, nose, eyes and throat revealed pupils
were equally round and reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements were intact.  Neck was supple.  No lymphadenopathy.
No obvious jugular venous distention.  No bruits.  Lungs had
diminished breath sounds anteriorly bilaterally.  Heart
sounds revealed a regular rate and rhythm with a positive
rub.  No murmur.  Abdomen was soft, midline laparoscopy scar.
Extremities revealed no obvious peripheral vascular disease,
positive pedal pulses.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The patient's catheterization showed left
anterior descending artery with a shifting plaque into the
circumflex with no refill down the left anterior descending
artery or the circumflex, proximal ostial 80% to 90% lesion.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient remained hypotensive in
cardiogenic shock while in the catheterization laboratory.
An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed, and Cardiac Surgery
was consulted.

Post catheterization, the patient was brought emergently to
the operating room for coronary artery bypass graft.  Please
see the Operative Note for full details.

In summary, the patient underwent coronary artery bypass
graft times two with a vein graft to the left anterior
descending artery and a vein graft to the first obtuse
marginal.  At the time of transfer the patient remained in
cardiogenic shock.  She had an arterial line, a Swan-Ganz
catheter, and intra-aortic balloon pump, ventricular pacing
wires times two, and atrial pacing wires.  She also had two
mediastinal chest tubes and a right pleural chest tube.  At
the time of transfer, her mean arterial pressure was 84.
Central venous pressure was 19.  She was AV paced with an
intra-aortic balloon pump at 1:1.  She was transferred with
propofol at 30 mcg/kg per minute, Milrinone at 0.25 mcg/kg
per minute, amiodarone at 1 mcg/kg per minute, Neo-Synephrine
at 1.5 mcg/kg per minute, dopamine at 10 mcg/kg per minute,
and insulin at 1 unit per hour.

On postoperative day one the patient was kept sedated in an
effort to allow her to rest throughout the day.  She remained
fully ventilated and the balloon pump remained at 1:1.

On the morning of postoperative day two the patient was
weaned from her sedation.  Following the weaning of sedation
she was weaned from the ventilator and successfully
extubated.  Later on that morning her intra-aortic balloon
pump was weaned and ultimately discontinued.  In addition,
the patient's Milrinone was weaned to off.  The patient
remained in the Intensive Care Unit on postoperative days
three and four to monitor her respiratory and cardiopulmonary
status.  Over the course of those two days the patient
remained hemodynamically stable.

However, on postoperative day four her cardiac index took a
dip and she was restarted on her Milrinone.  In addition, her
respiratory status seemed to be taking a turn for the worse.
Her respiratory rate increased.  She was producing large
amounts of sputum and becoming increasingly hypoxic despite
increasing oxygen support.  A chest x-ray at that time showed
bilateral patchy infiltrates.  On the afternoon on
postoperative day four the patient was intubated by
Anesthesia.

Over the next several days the patient remained intubated
requiring full ventilatory support.  She was empirically
started on vancomycin and Levaquin.  Her chest x-ray during
that time showed acute respiratory distress syndrome versus
bilateral lower lobe infiltrates.  Infectious Disease was
consulted and the patient was begun on vancomycin,
levofloxacin, and clindamycin which were ultimately changed
to vancomycin and ceftazidime.  Sputum from her previous
culture grew out methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus
aureus.

On postoperative day 10 through postoperative day 13 the
patient showed vast gains in her pulmonary status, and on
postoperative day 13 she was weaned from the ventilator and
successfully extubated.  She remained in the Intensive Care
Unit for two additional postoperative days to monitor her
pulmonary status.  On postoperative day 15 she was
transferred to the floor for continued postoperative care and
cardiac rehabilitation.

Following extubation the patient had a speech and swallow
consultation as well as [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] Clinic consultation.  On
further recommendations of Speech and Swallow, she was
initially begun on clear liquids and advanced slowly to soft
solids and then to a full regular diet.

Once on the floor, with the assistance of nursing and
physical therapy, the patient's activity level was increased
on a daily basis.  She remained hemodynamically stable.  Her
respiratory status continued to improve.  She was weaned from
her oxygen.

On postoperative day 16 she was brought to the
Electrophysiology laboratory for electrophysiology studies.
At that time she was found to not have inducible ventricular
tachycardia, and therefore no automatic internal
cardioverter-defibrillator was placed.  She continued to work
with nursing and physical therapy over the next several days.
On postoperative day 20, it was deemed that she was stable
and ready for discharge to home.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  At the time of discharge, the
patient was stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Coronary artery disease, status post percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty, status post coronary
artery bypass graft times two with saphenous vein graft to
left anterior descending artery and saphenous vein graft to
first obtuse marginal.
2.  Type 1 diabetes mellitus.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Hypercholesterolemia.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Glucophage 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.
3.  Zestril 2.5 mg p.o. q.d.
4.  Amiodarone 400 mg p.o. q.d.
5.  NPH insulin 42 units q.a.m. and 8 units q.p.m.
6.  Regular insulin sliding-scale.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT TIME OF DISCHARGE:  Vital signs were
temperature 98.8, heart rate 84, sinus rhythm, blood pressure
100/60, respiratory rate 18, oxygen saturation 95% on room
air.  Weight preoperatively was 66.2 kg, at discharge was
66.1 kg.  Physical examination revealed alert and oriented
times three, conversant.  Moved all extremities.  Breath
sounds were clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Heart sounds
revealed a regular rate and rhythm, first heart sound and
second heart sound.  Sternum was stable.  Incision was open
to air, clean and dry.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended, normal active bowel sounds.  Extremities were
warm and well perfused.  No clubbing,