Admission Date:  [**2136-1-26**]       Discharge Date:  [**2136-2-23**]


Service:  ACOVE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. [**Known lastname 44755**] is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old
female who presented from [**Location (un) **] Home via EMS with
shortness of breath.  In the emergency room she was found to
be in rapid atrial fibrillation.  She was treated with
diltiazem effectively.  She has previously been healthy until
the past 6-8 weeks when she developed a cough with decreasing
appetite.  She was hospitalized initially for a light
cellulitis and was discharged to rehabilitation and then
readmitted with pneumonia.  She was last discharged on
[**2136-1-24**] to [**Hospital3 2558**] on a course of levofloxacin.

In general she has been in very good health all of her life
and has only been ill in the last six weeks.

Rule out symptoms:  Positive pain in the back, positive
shortness of breath, positive weakness and positive right arm
pain.  She denies chest pain, fever, chills, nausea,
vomiting, abdominal pain, dysuria, headache, visual changes
or constipation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Hypertension.  2. Cellulitis.  3.
GI bleeds.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1. Lopressor 12.5 twice a day.  2.
Levofloxacin 250 once a day.  3. Oxycodone 5 mg p.r.n.  4.
Subcutaneous heparin.  5. Colace.  6. Trazodone.  7.
Albuterol.  8. Atrovent.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Afebrile 96.9, blood pressure 120/70,
pulse 111, at 96% on four liters.  In general she was a weak,
deconditioned woman in no apparent distress.  Pupils were
equal, round, and reactive to light, extraocular movements
intact, sclerae anicteric.  Neck was supple, no LID, no
jugular venous distension.  Heart was tachycardic and
irregular.  Lungs had negative crackles but decreased breath
sounds at the bases.  Abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended with positive bowel sounds.  She had grade II
decubitus ulcers on the buttocks and right arm.  She had
positive bilateral edema with 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses.  She
was oriented to person and place.  Cranial nerves two through
12 were intact.  She had 4/5 strength in the upper and lower
extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 6.4, hematocrit 32.2, platelet
count 344.  INR 1.1.  Sodium 146, potassium 3.5, chloride
112, bicarbonate 25, BUN 21, creatinine 0.7, glucose 112, CK
33, troponin 0.5.

EKG:  Atrial fibrillation with a rate of 165.  She had ST-T
changes suggestive of acute coronary syndrome.

Chest x-ray:  Bilateral effusions, right greater than left.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old female with
no significant past medical history, previously well,
admitted for rapid atrial fibrillation, bilateral pleural
effusions and question of pneumonia.

2. Cardiovascular:  The patient was found to be in rapid
atrial fibrillation originally treated with p.o. diltiazem.
The patient's respiratory status deteriorated during the stay
and on [**2136-1-28**] the patient was transferred to the intensive
care unit for treatment of pneumonia.  In the intensive care
unit the patient's atrial fibrillation became worse with rate
to the 150s.  The patient was started on a diltiazem drip.
As the patient's respiratory status improved, the patient
eventually left the intensive care unit on diltiazem 60 mg
p.o. q.i.d.  During that time the patient supposedly had
episodes of bradycardia though nothing was documented.
During her course on the floor the patient's rate control
worsened to the patient where she was taking diltiazem 540 mg
q.d. and Lopressor 12.5 mg b.i.d. needed to be added on,
still with poor rate control.  This poor rate control was in
the setting of worsening aspiration pneumonia.  Eventually
the patient's rate was better controlled on Lopressor 25
t.i.d. and diltiazem 30 mg q.i.d.  During this time the
patient had frequent episodes of pauses and bradycardia.  EP
was consulted and they recommended pacemaker placement.  The
family was advised of this and to this point has declined
pacemaker placement, the patient saying she wants no invasive
procedures.

The patient also had an echocardiogram done that showed a
preserved ejection fraction.  Likely the patient has
diastolic dysfunction that is leading to congestive heart
failure.  The patient has bilateral pleural effusions from
congestive heart failure.  The patient was diuresed slowly
during the stay with no real improvement to the pleural
effusions.  The patient had moderate rate control on
diltiazem 30 q.i.d. and Lopressor 25 t.i.d., no pacemaker
placement indicated at the time.

2. Pulmonary:  The patient has likely aspiration pneumonia
and continued to aspirate throughout the stay.  Eventually
the patient's aspiration pneumonia was treated with
ceftazidime, Flagyl, vancomycin and azithromycin.  It was
determined that only ceftazidime and Flagyl were needed for
treatment and the patient completed a 14-day course.  The
patient's respiratory status improved during this time,
however the patient continues to aspirate and will continue
to need some sort of treatment for aspiration pneumonia even
though the patient was on aspiration precautions.  We were
not going to tap the pleural effusions because they were
likely to reaccumulate in the setting of congestive heart
failure and the patient's low albumin.  During the stay the
patient had frequent mucous pluggings, needed frequent chest
physical therapy and deep suctioning.  The patient's diuresis
was slowed down in this setting because of the likelihood
that the diuresis was leading to increased mucous plugging.

3. Infectious disease:  The patient was admitted with both
cellulitis and pneumonia.  The cellulitis cleared up on
intravenous oxacillin.  Pneumonia was very difficult to
clear.  The patient ended up completing a 14-day course of
ceftazidime and Flagyl but continued to aspirate and the risk
of aspiration pneumonia remains very high and is the reason
it is difficult to treat other processes.

4. Diet:  The patient had a swallow study that showed that
she was at very high risk for aspiration.  The patient was
given nectar-thickened food, was in the upright position at
all times, kept her chin down while eating, swallowed and
then put her chin up.  Unfortunately the patient continued to
aspirate even with all of these precautions.  The patient was
given Boost to increase nutritional status.  The patient's
albumin reached a low of 1.8 and then started to trend back
up, currently 2.4.  The patient is not a candidate for PEG
tube to supplement diet, as that will not decrease aspiration
risk, and the family does not want the patient to undergo
PEG.  Will continue aspiration precautions and will continue
to suction and replete diet as necessary.

5. Prophylaxis:  The patient throughout the stay was bed
bound.  The patient was treated with heparin subcutaneous.
Physical therapy came by to help as needed, and the patient
was on Protonix for GI prophylaxis.

6. Skin:  The patient has stage II sacral decubiti.  Wound
care consultations were called multiple times and we
appreciate their help.  DuoDerm dressings were given and the
patient had increased mobilization in bed with turning as
much as possible.

7. Pain:  The patient had frequent pain secondary to sacral
decubiti.  Originally she was treated with oxycodone 5 mg q.
4 hours.  Pain regimen was switched to morphine 1 mg
intravenous p.r.n. which also helps the patient's respiratory
status.

8. Psychiatry:  Near the end of her stay the patient reported
being tired and not as interested in fighting the disease to
physicians.  Would likely recommend starting Ritalin and
Zoloft and discontinuing Ritalin once the patient's mood
improves from Zoloft's effectiveness, likely 2-3 weeks.

9. Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  The patient was given
fluid boluses as needed throughout the stay to keep up her
urine output.  The patient's electrolytes were repleted
multiple times, especially in the setting of diuresis.  The
patient was slowly diuresed with Lasix 40 intravenous p.r.n.
The goal of diuresis was to remove the pleural effusions,
though that has been very difficult in the setting of the
patient's poor nutrition and di