Admission Date:  [**2150-1-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2150-1-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2077-8-1**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname **] is a 72-year-old man
with multiple medical problems who is status post recent
medical Intensive Care Unit admission from [**2149-11-8**]
through [**2149-12-9**] for urosepsis complicated by
myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, worsening
renal failure resulting in initiation of dialysis and
prolonged intubation for hypoxemic respiratory failure
secondary to congestive heart failure.  The patient was
discharged to [**Hospital1 **] Care Hospital on [**1-2**].  At [**Hospital1 **] the
patient was noted to have melena times 24 hours with a drop
in hematocrit from 34 to 28. He was transfused two units of
packed red blood cells with a resultant hematocrit of 31.6.
He was then sent to the Emergency Room for evaluation where
he was noted to be hypotensive at 72/48 on arrival.  He
received 500 cc of normal saline and was started on a
Dopamine drip with an increase in his blood pressure to
160/54.  NG lavage in the Emergency Room was negative for
blood.  The patient was pancultured and given Vancomycin and
Ceftazidime.  He was transferred from the medical Intensive
Care Unit for evaluation.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient referred to feeling sleepy
and lethargic.  He denied chest pain, shortness of breath or
abdominal pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease status post
catheterization with left anterior descending artery stent on
[**2149-12-15**], status post MI in [**2149-11-8**].  Congestive heart
failure with an ejection fraction of 25-30%.  Type 2 diabetes
mellitus times 20 years.  Peripheral vascular disease status
post toe amputation times two.  Atrial fibrillation.
Pseudomonas urinary tract infection in [**2149-11-8**].
Hypertension.  Chronic renal insufficiency now on
hemodialysis Monday, Wednesday and Friday.  Gout.  Chronic
lower extremity erythema and edema.  Obstructive sleep apnea,
on C-pap.  Anemia of chronic disease on Epogen.  History of
Methicillin resistant staph aureus pneumonia.  History of GI
bleed with no documented EGD or colonoscopy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Protonix 40 mg po q day, Captopril 12.5 mg po
tid, Levofloxacin 250 mg po q d, day 8 of 15, Epogen 5,000
units three times per week with hemodialysis, Colace 100 mg
po bid, Lipitor 40 mg po q h.s., Nephrocaps one tablet po q
day, NPH 10 units q a.m., 6 units q p.m., Paroxetine 20 mg po
q day, Reglan 5 mg po qid, Calcium Carbonate 500 mg po tid,
Digoxin 0.125 mg po tiw.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient quit smoking tobacco 20 years
ago, he quit drinking alcohol 4-6 weeks prior to admission.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 99.8, heart rate 80, blood
pressure 131/51, respiratory rate 26, oxygen saturation 97%
on four liters.  In general, this is a lethargic but alert
elderly gentleman, chronically ill appearing, answering
questions.  HEENT:  Indicated pupils are equal, round and
reactive to light.  There was a right subconjunctival
hemorrhage and dry oral mucosa.  The neck was supple with
full range of motion.  There was no jugulovenous distension.
A right subclavian Quinton catheter was in place and the site
appeared clean, dry and intact.  Cardiovascular exam
indicated regular rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2, no
murmurs, gallops or rubs.  Lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdominal exam indicated bruising on the lower
abdomen.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, non distended with
normal bowel sounds.  The patient had a rectal bag in place
with black, runny stool.  On extremity exam the patient had
no edema, he had an ulcer with an eschar over his left
lateral shin.  Back exam indicated stage 2 sacral decubitus
ulcer with no rash and no vertebral body tenderness.
Neurologically the patient was alert and oriented to place,
month, year and current events.  He moved all four
extremities against gravity.  Reflexes were symmetric.

LABORATORY DATA:  EKG indicated normal sinus rhythm.  Chest
x-ray indicated increased right hemidiaphragm, unchanged from
[**12-29**].  There was no congestive heart failure or infiltrate.
White blood count was 28.4 with 74% polys and 20% lymphs.
Hematocrit 31.6.  Chem 7 was remarkable for BUN of 61,
creatinine 6.1 and glucose 188, LFTs were notable for an
alkaline phosphatase of 248.  Cardiac enzymes were negative.
Urinalysis indicated a specific gravity of 1.030, nitrite
positive, [**2-10**] white blood cells and a few bacteria.  Arterial
blood gases indicated a PH of 7.31, PACO2 40 and PAO2 of 62.
Lactate was 2.3.  Blood cultures, urine cultures and C. diff
cultures were sent and were negative.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In the medical Intensive Care Unit the
patient was continued on Dopamine drip and slowly weaned off
with good hemodynamic stability.  He was transfused a total
of 3 units of packed red blood cells, following which his
hematocrit remained stable.  The patient continued
hemodialysis three times per week.  The patient was also
started on conjugated estrogen therapy in the setting of a GI
bleed.  The patient was evaluated by the GI service on
hospital day #2 and felt that he was not actively bleeding
since his blood pressure was stable and his blood counts were
stable as well.  On the night of hospital stay #2 the patient
developed a transient, first degree AV block and the
Amiodarone and Digoxin were held.  On hospital day #3 the
patient was transferred to the floor for further work-up of
his GI bleed.  Upper endoscopy was performed on hospital day
#4 and indicated the presence of a polyp in the stomach body
which was described as likely hyperplastic.  There was no
active bleeding.  Colonoscopy was also performed and
indicated ischemic appearing ascending colon with no evidence
of any active bleeding.  As all of the patient's culture
results came back negative, Vancomycin was discontinued.  The
patient was also restarted on his Amiodarone and Aspirin
given that there was no evidence of a current GI bleed.  The
patient was evaluated by physical therapy who recommended
aggressive daily physical therapy given his degree of
deconditioning.  On hospital day #5 the patient was noted to
be lethargic with decreased responsiveness.  A chest x-ray
indicated a slight increase in congestive heart failure.
Arterial blood gases indicated a PH of 7.29, PACO2 of 49 and
PAO2 87.  An EKG was obtained which indicated no ischemic
changes.  Urinalysis was sent which came back consistent with
a urinary tract infection.  Urine cultures were sent and the
patient was started on Ciprofloxacin.  Following initiation
of antibiotic therapy, the patient's mental status improved
dramatically and he remained at baseline for the remainder of
his hospital stay.  The patient was evaluated by the speech
and swallow service who deemed him appropriate for thick
liquids and pureed foods.  At the time of this dictation the
patient was being screened for placement in an acute
rehabilitation facility.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Ischemic bowel, status post ? lower GI bleed.
2.  Coronary artery disease.
3.  Congestive heart failure with 25% ejection fraction.
4.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
5.  Peripheral vascular disease.
6.  Atrial fibrillation.
7.  Hypertension.
8.  End stage renal disease on hemodialysis.
9.  Obstructive sleep apnea.
10. Chronic lower extremity edema.
11. History of MRSA pneumonia.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Cipro 500 mg po q day through
[**2150-1-24**], Tylenol 650 mg po q 4-6 hours prn, enteric coated
ASA 81 mg po q day, Amiodarone 200 mg po q day, Prevacid slow
rate 30 mg po bid, Epogen 5000 units with hemodialysis,
Captopril 12.5 mg po tid, Paroxetine 20 mg po q d, Nephrocaps
one tablet po q day, Reglan 5 mg po q 6 hours, Calcium
Carbonate suspension 500 mg po tid, Lipitor 40 mg po q h.s.,
NPH 10 units subcu q a.m., 6 units subcu q p.m.

The patient was to have hemodialysis three times per week.

DISPOSITION:  At the time of this dictation it was
anticipated that the patient would be discharged to an acute
rehabilitation facility.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Improved.




                            [**Initials (N