Admission Date:  [**2168-3-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2168-3-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2096-6-10**]     Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA/SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 71 year old
male, status post motor vehicle crash driver, high speed
crash approximately 70 mph, no loss of consciousness,
however, ETOH involved, whose chest impacted the steering
wheel.  The patient presented to the Trauma Bay, was found on
examination to be hemodynamically stable.

Trauma workup revealed a grade III liver laceration of a
complex nature, close to but not involving the hilum and
portal venous structures.  The patient's workup also revealed
some elevated liver enzymes consistent with this injury and
some T wave inversions on his electrocardiogram in leads I,
II and V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  For this, he was admitted to the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit where he underwent volume resuscitation
and he was ruled out for myocardial infarction.  Over the
next couple days, the patient's hematocrit was serially
followed and he was found to have a slowly decreasing
hematocrit although the changes were slowing and the patient
remained hemodynamically stable. The patient's hematocrit
continued to be serially followed and were found to level out
at approximately 29.0.

After several days, the patient was transferred to the floor
where he remained afebrile with stable vital signs.  However,
he developed a significant ileus requiring placement of a
nasogastric tube.  Nasogastric decompression for three days
resulted in resolution of the patient's nausea and vomiting.
He began passing stool and flatus.  Nasogastric tube was
removed and diet was slowly advanced.  On the day of
discharge, he was tolerating regular diet, passing stool and
flatus, and will be discharged home.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. which the patient was on
prior to admission.
2.  Captopril 100 mg p.o. t.i.d., however, he did not require
this during this admission and has been instructed not to
continue this as a home medication and he should follow-up
with his primary care physician regarding this.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 520**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 521**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 22409**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2168-3-18**]  21:36
T:  [**2168-3-22**]  20:34
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
