Admission Date: [**2105-3-24**]        Discharge Date: [**2105-3-27**]

Date of Birth:  [**2057-2-17**]        Sex:  F

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


TIME OF DEATH:  [**2105-3-27**] at 1856.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 48 year-old female
who flu-like symptoms for 1 weeks, 4 to 5 days of right upper
quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting, dark diarrhea, decreased
p.o. intake and was reported by family to be jaundiced. She
had been taking approximately Tylenol #3 Extra Strength and
noted that her urine had been dark. She denies any alcohol or
exposure to rural mushrooms in the last year.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Asthma, heartburn. She denies stroke
or myocardial infarction.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Only tubal ligation.

ALLERGIES:  She has no known allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Diabetes, hypertension.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  At presentation she was afebrile.
Heart was 74, 90/58, 16, 98%. She was jaundiced, alert and
oriented. Scleral icterus. Her lungs were clear. She had
hepatomegaly. The right upper quadrant was tender. Rectal:
Guaiac negative.

A 48 year-old female who had acute hepatitis. Etiology of the
hepatitis was unclear. Supposedly related to Tylenol. She had
an acetaminophen level of 17 at time of presentation. AST was
8,124, ALT was 6,780, alkaline phosphatase was 209 and total
bilirubin was 17.8.

Patient was admitted to the medical service and followed
approximately for 1-1/2 days, given Mucomyst and as her care
progressed and her INR decided to drift up and her liver
function continued to deteriorate patient was taken over by
the transplant surgery service. At this point in time factor
7 was given on multiple occasions. Fresh frozen plasma drip
was started and patient was intubated for airway protection
as she was developing encephalopathy. Additional to that a
neurosurgical consultation was obtained and [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 36066**] drain
was placed for ICP monitoring. The ICP initially at
presentation was in the 30s. It was elevated shortly after a
CT scan was found to be normal immediately after placement of
ICP monitoring device. Approximately 6 hours later
neurosurgical attending was again at the bedside evaluating
the drain for elevated ICP in the 48 to 51 range. Pupils were
reactive at that point in time and an attempt was made to
decrease the ICP with blowing off the CO2. The ventilator was
increased for a period of time. She is blowing off the CO2 to
change the ICP. The ICP did not change in response to these
maneuvers. Additional to that her sodium was already 154 and
the decision was undertaken not to give Mannitol at the time.
The patient had equally reactive pupils. She was then taken
to the CT scanner and evaluated again with serial CT scan
imaging of the head and was found to have some measure of
cerebral edema. The patient progressed throughout the course
of the day, worsening, hepatic dysfunction and additional
vasculopathy or cerebral edema progressed. Eventually
discussion was undertaken with family about CMO status. CMO
status was agreed upon by family and patient actually had an
asystolic event shortly thereafter. A family meeting was
undertaken and family agreed to autopsy.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:  Hepatic encephalopathy.
Acute hepatic failure.
Coagulopathy.
Brain death.



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], [**MD Number(1) 3432**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7823**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2105-3-27**] 20:32:25
T:  [**2105-3-27**] 21:49:45
Job#:  [**Job Number 36067**]
