Admission Date:  [**2106-1-25**]       Discharge Date:


Service:  Critical Cardiac Care Unit

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 81 year old
male with cardiomyopathy, hypertension, diabetes Type 2,
status post recent cardiac admission for catheterization in
the setting of increased shortness of breath.  The patient
has clean coronary arteries, positive cardiomyopathy with an
ejection fraction of about 30%, clinically right heart
failure, symptoms greater than left heart failure who notes
bilateral minimal activity secondary to lower extremity pain
and swelling, increased over the past four to five days with
increased scrotal/penis edema, no dosing changes and no
medical noncompliance.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease,
cardiomyopathy, congestive heart failure, atrial
fibrillation, status post pacer in [**2103**], patient with
prostate cancer, embolic cerebrovascular accident,
lymphedema, chronic renal insufficiency, degenerative joint
disease, and hypertension and diabetes Type 2

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Amiodarone 200 mg once a day;
Protonix 40 mg once a day; Aspirin 325 once a day; Colace;
Lopressor 12.5 twice a day; insulin sliding scale, NPH 25 q.
AM; Hydralazine 400 mg four times a day; Imdur 30 mg twice a
day; Lasix 80 mg twice a day; Coumadin 5 mg once a day,
alternating with 7 mg once a day, on alternating days.

ALLERGIES:  The patient with allergies to Penicillin, Sulfa
drugs, intravenous dye and shellfish.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco or alcohol history.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No weight loss, no fever, nightsweats or
anorexia, no blurry vision, diplopia and no tinnitus, sinus
pain or sore throat.  No chest pain or palpitations, positive
lower extremity edema, positive fatigue, no orthopnea or
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  Positive dyspnea on exertion.
Positive cough, dry, no nausea or vomiting, hematemesis,
positive hematochezia, no abdominal diarrhea, constipation,
no easy bruising, no dysuria or hematuria, no rash, no
pruritus, no change in skin or hair, positive energy loss,
positive weakness in extremities.  No back pain, no vertigo,
no dizziness.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Blood pressure is 164/90, heartrate
72, weight 268 lbs, blood sugar 143, 96% oxygen saturation on
2 liters, afebrile.  The patient is alert and oriented times
three.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat shows pupils are
equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation.
Mucous membranes dry.  Neck is supple, no left anterior
descending.  Respiratory, slight bibasilar crackles,
nonlabored breathing.  Cardiovascular, regular rate and
rhythm via pacer, no mitral regurgitation, normal pulses.
Abdomen, soft, normoactive bowel sounds, soft nontender,
nondistended, no rebound or guarding.  Lower extremities are
2+ edema.  Cranial nerves II through XII intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  Labs on admission from [**1-25**], sodium
136, potassium 4.1, chloride 100, bicarbonate 22, BUN 65,
creatinine 2.9, glucose 161, white blood cells 6, hematocrit
32.6, platelets 136, PT 25.3, INR 4.5, PTT 44.4, ALT 20, AST
41, alkaline phosphatase 28, albumin 2.7, calcium 8.6,
phosphorus 3.8, magnesium 2.0, amylase 33, CK 157, MB 5.
Catheterization on [**2105-12-18**] showed normal coronaries,
moderate systolic and diastolic ventricular dysfunction,
moderate pulmonary hypertension.  Blood cultures times two
are pending, urine culture is pending.  Echocardiogram shows
paced rhythm at 70 with left bundle branch block.  No changes
from [**2105-12-31**].  Chest x-ray shows cardiomyopathy
with overt congestive heart failure.  Basal small effusions.

IMPRESSION/PLAN:  An 81 year old with nonischemic
cardiomyopathy who presents with increased scrotal edema,
pain in the lower extremities, increased lower extremity
edema, decreased exercise tolerance, acute and chronic renal
failure.

Cardiovascular - Evaluate the cause of cardiomyopathy,
congestive heart failure, unclear.  Pulmonary hypertension,
question pulmonary function tests.  Need for pulmonary
evaluation.  Continue to diurese.  The patient should be 1
liter negative over 24 hour period.  Check right atrial
saturation at rest.  Continue with Hydralazine, Imdur,
Aspirin, Amiodarone, Coumadin, beta blocker.

Renal - Acute and chronic renal insufficiency, workup not
suggested of urinary tract infection.  Continue Lasix.
Suspect chronic low flow state secondary to cardiomyopathy.
Kidneys with mild prerenal status at baseline, avoid
nephrotoxic drugs.  Check eos, consider renal ultrasound.

Genitourinary - Evaluate scrotal edema, meticulous skin care
to avoid ulcerations and breakdown.  History of anemia,
workup baseline, check iron studies, reticulocyte count if
not done.

Endocrinology - Check fingersticks q.i.d.  NPH dose as above.

Physical therapy consult please.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was transferred from the [**Hospital Ward Name 8559**] Acove [**Hospital1 **] to the Coronary Care Unit for management of
his worsening edema and congestive heart failure for
Swan-Ganz catheter and intravenous Milrinone therapy.  There
was an 82 year old male with multiple medical problems,
congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 40% by
echocardiogram with moderately elevated right-sided
pressures, no wall-motion abnormalities, clean indices by
recent catheterization, diabetes Type 2, atrial fibrillation
status post pacer who has had many recent admissions for
congestive heart failure exacerbation.  The patient was
recently 202d, admitted to [**Hospital6 2018**] for symptoms of congestive heart failure accentuated
by prominent lower extremity edema.  At that time he was
ruled out by myocardial infarction, diuresed and switched
from an ACE inhibitor to Hydralazine in the setting of an
elevated creatinine.  The patient was discharged to
rehabilitation on [**2106-1-5**] until five days ago prior
to admission on [**2106-1-25**].  He presented with evaluation
with worsening lower extremity edema and new scrotal edema.
On presentation he denied any chest pain, shortness of
breath, fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.  The
patient denied dietary indiscretions, not certain.  He noted
he has been taking his medications as described.  The
patient's review of systems were essentially negative, no
orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea as above.  The
patient denied palpitations.  He has never smoked nor drank
alcohol.  The patient was initially admitted to the [**Hospital Ward Name 8559**], Acove Service for management of congestive heart
failure.  Summary of the first few days as follows - He was
ruled out for an myocardial infarction by enzymes.  He had no
telemetry event.  Chest x-ray read as no evidence of failure.
Repeat echocardiogram showed an increased ejection fraction
of 40%, up from 30% in [**Month (only) 956**] with mild mitral
regurgitation, 1+, moderate tricuspid regurgitation 2+ and no
PCD.  The patient managed on increasing doses of Lasix and
Zaroxolyn to a maximum of Lasix 200 mg b.i.d. with Zaroxolyn
before each use with difficulty keeping him negative, given
his rise in creatinine.  The patient had lower extremity
dopplers negative for deep vein thrombosis, abdominal
ultrasound was negative for hepatosplenomegaly, ascites,
portal hepatic obstruction and PPD dilation.  The kidneys
were within normal limits without enlargement and/or
hydronephrosis.  Bilateral pleural effusions were
incidentally noted.  Renal was consulted and they recommended
diuresis and plus/minus possible ultrafiltration if there was
no response to the diuresis.  Eos were positive, Phena 1%,
dopplers negative.  Congestive Heart Failure Service was
consulted and they recommended aggressive diuresis with Lasix
alone as tolerated.  They initiated Digoxin workup for
etiology of pulmonary hypertension and possible sleep apnea
evaluation.  The patient was transferred to the CCU on [**2106-2-2**] for tailored therapy with Milrinone plus/minus
Natrecor.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION TO CCU:
1.  Trazodone 25 to 50 prn
2.  NPH 16 q. AM
3.  Colace 100 mg b.i.d.
4.  Digoxin .125 q.o.d.
5.  Epogen 5000 units subcutaneously three times a week
6.  Imdur 30 mg q.d.
7.  Lasix 200 mg b.i.d.
8.  Zaroxolyn

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives 