Admission Date:  [**2146-1-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2146-1-15**]


Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 81 year-old
man with a history of bipolar disorder who was referred to
the Emergency Department by his psychiatrist with agitation
and mental status change and was admitted to Medicine for a
delirium workup.  The family reported that in [**Month (only) 404**] the
patient presented with palpitations and had an
echocardiogram, which revealed mild pulmonary hypertension.
Telemetry revealed two asymptomatic runs of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia and the patient was started on
Metoprolol.  Several weeks later the patient was readmitted
for bright red blood per rectum with a negative
esophagogastroduodenoscopy and barium enema.  Over the past
weeks prior to presentation the patient had been agitated,
yelling and cursing with visual hallucinations and paranoia.
The patient was not sleeping well.  The patient presented to
the Emergency Department on [**2146-1-12**], minimally responsive
with dramatic Parkinsonism features.  Lithium levels 1.3.
The patient also had a sodium of 150, which is a chronic
problem secondary to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.  Head CT
was negative.  The patient's psychiatric medications were
held and a lumbar puncture was performed, which was negative.
 The patient had received 10 mg of intravenous Ativan for the
lumbar puncture.  That evening the patient was found to be
diaphoretic and in respiratory distress.  First responders
found a weak pulse, heart rate in the 30s.  This degenerates
a PEA.  The patient was given epinephrine and atropine and
then developed ventricular tachycardia.  The patient was
shocked with 200 jewels and developed a narrow complex
tachycardia.  The patient was intubated and sent to the
Intensive Care Unit for further management.  the patient
coded for twenty minutes.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.  Bipolar
depression.  3.  History of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia.  4.  History of gastrointestinal bleed.  5.
Hemorrhoids.  6.  Increased PSA.  7.  Abnormal thyroid
function tests.  8.  Pulmonary hypertension.

MEDICATIONS:  Ativan 1 to 2 mg intravenous prn.  Risperdal
0.25 q.h.s., Metoprolol 25 mg po b.i.d., Lithium 300 mg in
the a.m. and 600 in the p.m.  Ketorolac 0.5% ophthalmic one
drop OD t.i.d.  Voltaren drops OS t.i.d., CoSopt one drop OU
b.i.d., Ocuflox 0.3% drop OD t.i.d., Prednisone 1% drop OD
t.i.d., Alphagan 0.2% drop b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a retired chef with 100 pack
year history of smoking quitting in [**2133**].  The patient denies
any alcohol or drug use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On general examination the patient was
an elderly man lying in bed unresponsive.  HEENT examination
revealed pupils that were minimally reactive, 3 mm and
midline.  Neck examination revealed a supple neck.
Cardiovascular examination revealed regular tachycardiac with
normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Chest
examination revealed good air movement with coarse bilateral
breath sounds.  Abdominal examination revealed soft,
nontender, nondistended belly with normal bowel sounds.
Extremity examination revealed no edema.  Neurological
examination the patient was intubated and sedated with no gag
reflex, no over breathing of the vent, inability to withdraw
to pain and no spontaneous movements.

PERTINENT LABORATORY FINDINGS:  The patient had a white blood
cell count of 9 with a hematocrit of 36.9 and platelets of
267.  The patient had a sodium of 150 with a creatinine of
1.1.  The patient had initial CK of 59.  Initial urinalysis
revealed nitrite negative, leukocyte negative, no white blood
cells, no red blood cells.  Lithium level was 1.3.  RPR was
negative.  Tox screen was negative.  Cerebral spinal fluid
gram stain was negative for organisms and neutrophils.
Cerebral spinal fluid culture was negative at the time of
this dictation.  Tube number four of cerebral spinal fluid
had 1 white blood cell and 0 red blood cells.  Cerebral
spinal fluid protein was 46 with a glucose of 67.

Chest x-ray revealed infiltrate in the right lower lobe.
There was a right IJ in place.  There was no pneumothorax.
ET tube was approximately 4 cm above carinii.
Electrocardiogram sinus at 65 with a left axis deviation, PR
interval of .16, QRS of .16, QTC of .36 and minimal T wave
flattening in V5 and V6, which was new.  Head CT revealed no
infarct or bleed.  Chest CT revealed no PE and a right lower
lobe infiltrate.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This 81 year-old man presented for
evaluation of delirium and was admitted to the MICU after
respiratory and cardiac arrest.

The patient remained intubated and sedated in the Intensive
Care Unit on supportive mechanical ventilation.  He ruled out
for myocardial infarction with three negative creatine
kinases.  The patient was given antibiotics consistent of
Levofloxacin and Flagyl for right lower lobe presumed
aspiration pneumonia.  Neurology and psychiatry were
consulted and a repeat head CT revealed no changes from the
prior study.  On the day after admission to the MICU the
patient had some brain stem function present, but remained in
a coma. Propofol was discontinued and the patient did not
show any increase in mental status.  All psychiatric
medications were held.  Neurology followed the patient as did
psychiatry.  The patient's hypernatremia was treated with D5W
and he required phosphate supplementation for
hypophosphatemia.  A family meeting was held with the
patient's relatives and after 24 hours of minimal progress in
the patient's mental status and neurologic examination the
patient elected to make the patient CMO.  The patient expired
shortly thereafter.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Expired.






                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 292**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5246**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2146-1-15**]  08:01
T:  [**2146-1-18**]  09:23
JOB#:  [**Job Number 92904**]
