Admission Date:  [**2193-4-26**]       Discharge Date:  [**2193-5-8**]


Service:  Medicine

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 82 year old
white female with a history of severe scoliosis,
osteoporosis, hypertension, status post T3-T12 fusion on
[**2193-4-26**], status post compression fracture one to two
years ago.  The patient was doing well after her operation on
the orthopedic service, apart from self-extubating herself on
[**2193-4-27**], requiring increasing amounts of oxygen on the
floor.

On [**2193-5-1**], the patient had a fever of 101.4 and chest
x-ray showed left lower lobe collapse with a right greater
than left effusion.  Blood cultures, one out of four, were
positive for gram positive rods, thought to be a contaminant,
and gram positive cocci.  On [**2193-5-3**], overnight, the
patient had acute onset shortness of breath with an increase
in oxygen requirement with an oxygen saturation of 93% on a
40% face mask.  Arterial blood gases at that point were 7.45,
50 and 65 at 1:00 a.m. and then later, at 5:00 a.m., 7.41, 57
and 128 on 40% to 50% face mask.  Electrocardiogram was read
as stable.  A chest x-ray showed no congestive heart failure,
with right sided effusion and left lower lobe collapse,
unchanged from prior.  CT was negative for pulmonary embolus
but also saw bilateral effusions.  The patient's mental
status was deemed stable, as she was alert and oriented times
three, with some inappropriateness.

A medicine consult was called for this desaturation at 1:00
a.m. on [**2193-5-2**] and then on [**2193-5-2**] for falling.
For the fall, she possibly hit her head and fell on her right
side and also had a transient desaturation, for which were
arterial blood gases were 7.41, 57 and 124.  She had a CT of
her chest and head which showed no bleed and no fracture.
She was put in a collar until she was cleared and, at that
point, because a urinalysis was found to be positive for 46
white blood cells and greater than 1,000 red blood cells on
[**2193-5-2**] at 9:00 a.m.  The patient was started on
ciprofloxacin and then transferred to the medical service.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Osteoporosis, status post
compression fracture in last one to two years, here with
T3-T12 fusion done on [**2193-4-26**].  2.  Severe scoliosis.
3.  [**2193-4-22**] echocardiogram, concentric left
ventricular hypertrophy, left atrial enlargement, 1+ mitral
regurgitation, no wall motion abnormalities, normal left
ventricular ejection fraction.  4.  Hypertension times two
years.  5.  Hiatal hernia/gastroesophageal reflux disease.
6.  Question of mitral valve prolapse but negative on
echocardiogram.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies except
for morphine, which causes her to get very sick, nausea
apparently.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Iron supplements, Zantac 150 mg
p.o.q.d., Tenormin 25 mg p.o.q.d., Os-Cal 500 mg p.o.b.i.d.;
on transfer, albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers, Zantac 150 mg
p.o.b.i.d., Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o.t.i.d., Colace 100 mg
p.o.t.i.d., and p.r.n. Lasix, Zofran, codeine, Haldol and
Tylenol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination on transfer,
the patient's vital signs were 96.1, 66 to 80, 160 to 174/63
to 72 and 96% on 50% shovel mask, 84% in room air.  Overnight
ins and outs were 760 and 1,553, and urine output was 300 cc
over the last eight hours.  General:  In no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Moist mucous membranes,
oropharynx clear, no jugular venous distention, no point
tenderness.  Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally,
slight crackles at right base, scattered.  Cardiovascular:
Regular rate, S1 and S2 normal, II/VI systolic murmur at left
upper sternal border, no gallops or rubs.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds, no masses.
Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Neurologic
examination:  Alert and oriented times three, recall [**5-1**]
immediately and [**1-31**] in five minutes, strength 5/5 throughout,
sensation to light touch intact throughout, finger-to-nose
bilaterally intact, gait not tested, reflexes 1+ throughout
bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count was 11.7, hematocrit
37.7, down from 39.6, platelet count 256,000, and coagulation
profile normal.  Urinalysis showed specific gravity of 1.040,
large blood, positive nitrite, greater than 300 protein,
greater than 1,000 red blood cells, 46 white blood cells,
many bacterial and no epithelial cells.  Chem-7:  Sodium 144,
potassium 3.8, chloride 101, bicarbonate 32, BUN 22,
creatinine 0.4 and glucose 127.  The patient was ruled out
with CKs of 252, 262 and 213 with negative MB, troponin less
than 0.3.  Arterial blood gases:  As above.  CT scan of head
and chest:  Negative for bleed and fracture respectively.
CTA:  Negative for pulmonary embolus and bilateral pleural
effusions with question of left lower lobe loculation.  Chest
x-ray:  Bilateral effusions as on [**2193-4-28**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  The patient was thought to have had
flash pulmonary edema, possibly due to arrhythmia given her
diastolic dysfunction by echocardiogram.  The patient was
given 20 mg of Lasix.  Lopressor was increased, eventually to
50 mg twice a day.  Aspirin was given.  The patient was put
on telemetry.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient's effusions were thought likely
due to her flash pulmonary edema and were considered stable.
Left lobe loculation was not considered accessible by
ultrasound guided tap with risk of pneumothorax significant
enough to cause her significant clinical deterioration.

3.  Infectious disease:  The patient's urinary tract
infection was treated with five days of ciprofloxacin.  Blood
cultures were negative and urine culture was pending at this
time.

4.  Hematology:  The patient's hematocrit remained stable
during her hospitalization, ranging from 33 to 39 and, on
discharge, was 37.2.  Her white blood cell count continued to
climb during her hospitalization, although she remained
afebrile after transfer to medicine.  It was thought possible
that she could have a pneumonia given her effusions and
difficult chest x-ray assessment based on her skeletal
changes.  Ceftriaxone was started upon discharge for seven
days, 1 gram daily.  Her wounds did not look infected.

5.  Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  The patient
initially had a BUN to creatinine ratio that was elevated
but, during her hospitalization, her creatinine remained
stable at 0.4 to 0.5 and her BUN fell from a peak of 23 on
[**2193-5-2**] to 15 on discharge.  The patient was
intermittent getting intravenous fluids but mostly taking
orals and, by the end of her hospitalization, the patient was
taking adequate oral intake.

6.  Neurology:  The patient's mental status fluctuated day to
day and, as a result, she had a CT scan of her head initially
on transfer that was negative, and then another one on [**2193-5-7**] that was also negative for a subdural hematoma.  Her
mental status changes were thought possibly due to
ciprofloxacin but, also, her family said that this was her
baseline.  She was off codeine and only on Tylenol for her
pain.

7.  Renal:  As above, the patient's BUN to creatinine ratio
reduced over time.  Orthopedic surgery followed her after her
transfer to the medicine service and after her fall.  The
patient had a thoracic spine film, read by orthopedic surgery
who said that the alignment of the rods had shifted status
post the fall and still was adequate in terms of
stabilization of her spine.  Another read on the thoracic
spine was a left eighth rib fracture, unclear when that
occurred based on this one film.  There were no management
issues for that other than to heal spontaneously.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient was discharged to
rehabilitation in stable condition.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Thoracic compression fracture, status post T3 to T12 spinal
fusion.
Acute desaturations secondary to possible congestive heart
failure with diastolic dysfunction.
Hypertension.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
Scoliosis.
Concentric left ventricular hypertrophy.
Osteoporosis.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Ceftriaxone 1 gm i.v.q.24h. times seven days, until [**2193-5-16**].
Lactulose 15 cc p.o.b.i.d.p.r.n.
