Admission Date: [**2147-6-5**]        Discharge Date: [**2147-6-11**]

Date of Birth:  [**2097-5-15**]        Sex:  M

Service:  GU


INDICATIONS:  This is a 50-year-old male who was noted to
have gross painless hematuria and his workup demonstrated a
13-17 cm right renal mass extending into the right renal vein
and extending beyond the right renal vein and into the
infrahepatic inferior vena cava. His metastatic workup
revealed pulmonary and mediastinal metastases. In addition,
he was found to have bilateral pulmonary emboli. Because of
these findings, he was started on anticoagulation for a week
and was scheduled for an urgent radical nephrectomy and IVC
thrombectomy.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient's pulse was 84; his blood
pressure was 163/77; his respirations was 16; and his O2
saturation of 95% on room air. His chest was clear to
auscultation bilaterally. His heart was regular rate and
rhythm. His abdomen was soft and nontender. There was a
palpable mass in the right upper quadrant with minimal
discomfort on deep palpation on the right upper quadrant. No
appreciable right-sided varicocele or intratesticular masses.
No hernias were noted.

PERTINENT X-RAYS, EKGS, AND OTHER TESTS:  CT of the chest,
abdomen, and pelvis revealed a large right renal mass with
invasion of the right renal vein extension through carotid
fascia, extensive collateralization and deformation of the
right psoas muscle, persistent pulmonary emboli on the left
pulmonary artery, and sigmoid diverticulosis without
diverticulitis.

PROCEDURES PERFORMED:  A right radical nephrectomy with IVC
thrombectomy.

[**Hospital 1749**] HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was admitted to the urology
surgical service after which time he was taken to the
operating room. Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 4229**] and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] performed a right
radical nephrectomy with IVC thrombectomy. Although patient
did tolerate the procedure well, he had an estimated blood
loss of 7 liters. Patient, though, received 9 units of packed
red blood cells during the course of the operation. After the
operation was over, patient was taken directly to the
surgical intensive care unit where he remained intubated and
under close observation.

On the morning of postop day 1, patient received 2 more units
of packed red blood cells for postoperative anemia. His chest
tube was discontinued, and he was extubated both of which he
tolerated well.

On postop day #2, patient was transfused 2 more units of
packed red blood cells for, once again, a hematocrit of under
25. At this time, it was 23.6. Overall, however, he was doing
reasonably well, and he was monitored in the intensive care
unit for the remainder of that day.

On the morning of postop day #3, however, patient's O2
requirement had increased and he was saturating only 92% on a
4 liters of nasal cannula. At this time, we were concerned
that his known pulmonary embolus had worsened. We repeated a
CTA of the chest which revealed no worsening of the known
pulmonary embolus. He was also started on Lovenox at a dose
for treatment of known PE, but he remained stable with a
hematocrit of 25.1. The CTA did reveal, however, new
bilateral atelectasis in the bases and small bilateral
pleural effusions. For this reason, patient was started on an
aggressive diuresis using Lasix IV and on postop day #4, his
O2 was able to be weaned. We continued his diuresis, advanced
his p.o. intake to clears, and transferred him to the floor.

On postop day #5, patient's diet was advanced as tolerated.
He was continued to be ambulated. His Foley was discontinued,
and he was able to void. He was transitioned solely to p.o.
pain medication. Having accomplished all of these milestones,
on the evening of postop day #5, patient was discharged to
home with plans to followup with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 4229**] in the office.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Right renal mass, bilateral pulmonary
emboli, and metastatic right renal cancer, postoperative
anemia status post multiple transfusions.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Coumadin 2 mg p.o. daily,
hydromorphone 2 mg take [**1-3**] p.o. every [**2-4**] p.r.n., oxycodone
20 mg sustained release take 1 p.o. q.12.

FOLLOW-UP PLANS:  Patient was instructed to followup with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 4229**] in the office as well as with the pulmonary clinic.



                        [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 8918**], [**MD Number(1) 19072**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5032**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2147-6-13**] 21:12:23
T:  [**2147-6-14**] 04:22:16
Job#:  [**Job Number 19073**]

cc:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 19074**]