Admission Date:  [**2140-6-9**]       Discharge Date:  [**2140-6-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2067-7-11**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Last Name (un) 18171**] ICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 73 year-old female
with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus and atrial
fibrillation who complains of a five day history of a cough
productive of white sputum.  She reports that yesterday she
developed increasing shortness of breath (gradual) along with
subjective fevers with chills and sweats.  The patient
therefore called EMS.

She states that she returned from a vacation in the Catskills
approximately one week prior to admission and had a sore
throat that subsequently resolved.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Negative for chest pain, shortness of
breath, emesis, diarrhea, bright red blood per rectum or
melena.  She reports recent nausea with dry heaves.  She has
had chronic leg pain and edema (secondary to venostasis and
peripheral neuropathy), but denies increase above baseline.
The patient denies orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.
She does report some palpitations and racing heart.  EMS gave
the patient a Lasix dose times one and sublingual
nitroglycerin times three and brought the patient to the [**Hospital1 1444**] Emergency Department.

In the Emergency Department her temperature was 100.0.  Heart
rate 100 to 117.  Blood pressure 160/110.  Her oxygen
saturation was 85% on room air, which increased to 95% on a
100% nonrebreather.  The patient's electrocardiogram showed
minimal lateral nonspecific ST changes.  Her chest x-ray
(after the Lasix dose) showed no congestive heart failure,
pneumothorax or pneumonia.  An arterial blood gas done on
100% nonrebreather was 7.49, PCO2 of 37, and PO2 of 75.
Significant examination findings in the Emergency Department
included bibasilar crackles, jugulovenous distention and
peripheral edema.  With the patient's history of deep venous
thrombosis and PE there was a concern for pulmonary embolus.
The CT angiogram was performed, which was negative for
pulmonary emboli or for any pulmonary parenchymal process.
The patient was then transferred to the MICU due to her
elevated oxygen requirement.

On arrival to the MICU the patient reported feeling much
better.  Her oxygen saturations were in the mid 90s on 6
liters nasal cannula.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Systemic lupus erythematosus, atrial
fibrillation, osteoarthritis, status post bilateral total
knee replacements, peripheral neuropathy, status post venous
stripping, status post hiatal hernia repair, status post
cataract surgery, question of coronary artery disease (this
is according to a discharge summary, the patient denies
history of heart disease).  History of deep venous thrombosis
(occurred postop from the total knee replacement).
Osteoporosis.

HOME MEDICATIONS:  Lasix 40 mg po every other day, Digoxin
0.125 mg p q day, Protonix, Coumadin 7.5 mg q Monday through
Saturday and 10 mg q Sunday, Prednisone 10 mg po q day,
Neurontin 600 mg q.i.d., Fosamax 70 mg q week, Duragesic
patch 75 micrograms q 72 hours, Miacalcin nasal spray one
spray q.d., Cardizem 80 mg q day.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has allergies recorded to aspirin,
sulfa, Penicillin, percocet and Codeine.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count of 11.2
with 73% neutrophils and 15% lymphocytes, hematocrit 43.9 and
platelets of 273, PT 17.0, PTT 41.1, INR 2.0.  chem 7 sodium
1356, potassium 3.7, chloride 95, bicarb 29, BUN 12,
creatinine 0.9, glucose 101, calcium 9.2, magnesium 1.7, phos
3.3.  Urinalysis showed small blood, negative nitrite or
leukocyte, 0 to 2 red blood cell and 0 to 2 white blood cell,
occasional bacteria and no epithelial cells.  A Digoxin level
was subtherapeutic at 0.3.

Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation at a rate of 100
with normal axis, normal intervals, 1.[**Street Address(2) 1755**] depression in
V4 through V5 compared with prior in 5 of [**2135**] (the prior
also showed normal sinus rhythm).  CT angiogram was negative
for pulmonary embolus.  It showed no consolidation and only
minimal bibasilar atelectasis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the MICU at
3:00 a.m. on [**2140-6-9**].  This patient usually receives her
care at [**Hospital6 2910**].  Later that morning
contact was made with her primary physicians and the
arrangements were made for transfer to that institution.

Pulmonary:  The patient reported subjective improvement in
her shortness of breath after her diuresis.  The patient's
oxygen requirement at the time of this dictation is 5 liters
nasal cannula to maintain oxygen saturations in the mid 90s.

Cardiovascular:  1.  Ischemia, the patient's records record a
history of coronary artery disease, which is not further
documented.  The patient's electrocardiogram on admission
showed nonspecific ST changes, which were resolved by repeat
electrocardiogram this morning.  The patient denies any
history of chest pain associated with this shortness of
breath.  Serial enzymes are being obtained to rule out
myocardial infarction.  At the time of this dictation the
first two sets are negative and the patient was maintained on
telemetry and a low dose beta blocker was started during the
rule out protocol.  No aspirin was started as the patient
reports an aspirin allergy.

2.  Pump, the patient has no history of congestive heart
failure and her ejection fraction is unknown.  Her
presentation examination was consistent with congestive heart
failure and she did have subjective improvement with
diuresis.

3.  Rate/rhythm, the patient has chronic atrial fibrillation
and is currently reasonably rate controlled on her home dose
of Cardizem (heart rates have been in the 90s).  The patient
is on anticoagulation with Coumadin.

Infectious disease:  The patient presented with a low grade
temperature.  She had a mildly increased white blood cell
count with a left shift.  It was felt that this patient
likely has tracheobronchitis.  She did receive one dose of
Levofloxacin in the Emergency Department.  Sputum cultures
were obtained.

Endocrine:  1.  The patient has a history of chronic
Prednisone use.  The patient received one dose of
Hydrocortisone as stress dosed steroids in the Emergency
Department.  In the Intensive Care Unit the patient was
mildly hypertensive.  It was therefore felt the stress dose
steroids were not necessary.  She was continued on her home
dose of Prednisone.

2.  Osteoporosis the patient is treated with Miacalcin spray
and Fosamax.

Rheumatology:  History of systemic lupus erythematosus.  The
patient will be continued on her usual Prednisone dose.

Neurology:  The patient has a history of peripheral
neuropathy and is treated with Neurontin.  The patient has a
history of chronic pain and is treated with a Fentanyl patch.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient is medically stable for
[**Hospital 18172**] transfer to the [**Hospital6 2910**].


DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Congestive heart failure.
2.  Tracheobronchitis.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Protonix 40 mg po q day, Coumadin 7.5
mg po q day on Monday through Saturday and 10 mg on Sunday.
Neurontin 600 mg po q.i.d., Prednisone 10 mg po q day,
Fosamax 70 mg po q week, Duragesic patch 75 micrograms q 72
hours, Miacalcin one spray q.d., Cardizem 180 mg po q day,
Lopressor 12.5 mg po b.i.d., Lasix 40 mg intravenous q.d.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5587**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 15468**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2140-6-9**]  12:44
T:  [**2140-6-9**]  12:54
JOB#:  [**Job Number 18173**]
