Admission Date: [**2144-10-21**]        Discharge Date: [**2144-11-6**]

Date of Birth:  [**2067-7-11**]        Sex:  F

Service:  VSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77-year-old female
that presented to the emergency room on [**2144-10-21**] with
right foot ulcers over the dorsum of her foot and heel with
associated fevers. The patient, of note, had had a recent
right total hip replacement and total knee replacement and
had suffered a severely comminuted segmental femur fracture
that was periprosthetic in nature in [**Month (only) 216**] of this year.
This had been repaired with open reduction and internal
fixation of the right femur, and she also had had a traction
pin during this time. Now these ulcers were in the area of
this traction pin, and she had noticed that over the last 2-3
days prior to her presentation, she had also experienced some
chills. She also noted increased swelling and redness over
the dorsum of her right foot and toes that was beginning to
extend up her ankles. She had been due to see Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]
on [**10-22**], however came to the emergency room due to the
progression of these symptoms. Her family was also able to
provide a significant amount of history and also noted that
they thought the swelling and redness had increased.
Originally, it was contained to the dorsum of her foot near
where the traction had taken placed and had now migrated
slightly up her ankle.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature in the
emergency room was 99.8 degrees Fahrenheit, heart rate 90,
blood pressure 110/53, respiratory rate of 16, and she was
93% on room air. She was in no apparent distress and was
comfortable and was well-appearing in general. Her lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally without any wheezes, rales
or rhonchi. Her heart was in regular rate and rhythm, with no
murmurs, rubs or gallops. Her abdomen was soft, nontender and
nondistended. She was noted to be obese. On her vascular
exam, she had palpable femoral pulses bilaterally and
Dopplerable popliteals bilaterally, and monophasic dorsalis
pedis and posterior tibialis pulses bilaterally. She was
noted to have a significant eschar over the dorsum and one
over her heel with significant erythema progressing up above
both malleoli with 2+ pitting edema there. There was also
noted to be some malodorous, purulent material that was able
to be expressed from the borders of the ulcer. The area was
also noted to be warm to the touch, and the patient did not
have any tenderness to palpation in these areas. Her affect
and mood were normal.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Consisted of aortic stenosis,
congestive heart failure with EF of 55% on echocardiogram,
atrial fibrillation for which she was on warfarin, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, mitral valve regurgitation,
positive [**Doctor First Name **] antibody, osteoporosis, venous stasis,
peripheral neuropathy, history of Clostridium difficile in
the past and spinal stenosis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Amiodarone 200 mg once a day,
Lasix 80 mg every other day p.o., Prilosec 20 mg once daily,
prednisone 10 mg once daily, Toprol 25 mg once daily,
Coumadin 5 mg once daily, ferrous sulfate 325 mg once daily,
ipratropium, Neurontin 600 mg t.i.d., potassium chloride 20
mg b.i.d. and latanoprost eye drops.

PERTINENT LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  Her white count was
18.4 in the emergency room with hematocrit of 33.4, and a
platelet count of 447. Electrolytes were within normal limits
with a creatinine of 0.8 which was at her baseline, and a
blood sugar of 113. Her urinalysis was negative at this time.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  At this time, the patient was admitted to
the vascular service under Dr.[**Name (NI) 5695**] care for further
evaluation and treatment. She was seen also by the orthopedic
service during this time who followed the patient closely.
The patient was started on broad-spectrum antibiotics which
included vancomycin and gentamicin which were dosed
appropriately by levels, and evaluation continued with plain
films of the right foot that showed extensive soft tissue
swelling but no evidence of osteomyelitis. We also assessed
her for deep vein thrombosis at this time and this was
negative.

She was noted to have defervesced by hospital day #2 with her
temperature maximum at 99.3, and she reported that she was
feeling better at this time. On hospital day 3, an angiogram
was performed by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] to evaluate the circulation
in her right leg to evaluate her ability to heal this ulcer.
An abdominal aortogram with right lower extremity runoff was
performed. At this time, the findings included a normal
infrarenal abdominal aorta with patent iliac arteries and
patent common femoral artery on the right side with normal
deep femoral and superficial femoral arteries. The disease
was noted to be localized to the posterior tibialis which
occluded early in the runoff and was noted to be heavily
calcified. No pedal vessels were visualized during this
angiography. The patient was then continued on antibiotics,
however continued to have difficulty healing this wound on
her right heel and over the dorsum of her foot. Microbiology
had now come back from this wound which revealed a growth of
Proteus of moderate amounts and Enterococcus of moderate
amounts. This was done fro the dorsum of the right foot along
with some sparse staph growth. These were sensitive to
everything but ampicillin and ciprofloxacin. The patient was
continued on the antibiotics that she was started on
admission, vancomycin and gentamicin.

It was then determined, based on the patient's lack of
improvement in terms of these ulcers, and the fact that she
now appeared to be having slightly increasing erythema, that
the distal right lower extremity would be unsalvageable. She
had also positive blood cultures at this time which grew back
coagulase-negative staph that was resistant to oxacillin, and
the fact that she was occluded in both her posterior tibial
and dorsalis pedis arteries with no possibility for
reconstruction, so she was brought to the operating room on
hospital day #8, [**2144-10-28**], for a right below-the-knee
amputation which she tolerated well, and in the postoperative
period there were no issues until the morning of
postoperative day 1, when the patient became acutely short of
breath while in the vascular intensive care unit on Far-11.
The patient was, at this point, evaluated, and a chest x-ray
was performed which revealed mild fluid overload. The patient
was not hemodynamically unstable during this time; however,
it was determined that the patient would be best served by
being transferred to the surgical intensive care unit. She
was transferred there, and later that day spiked a
temperature of 102.3 degrees Fahrenheit, for which another
set of pancultures were sent. The patient's antibiotic
coverage was broadened to include vancomycin, levofloxacin
and Flagyl at this time which she remained on until
discharge.

The patient underwent a full work-up at this time because she
briefly required vasopressor agents including Levophed at a
fairly low dose. She was able to be weaned off this without
significant difficulty. She did also have a cortisone stim
test which she passed, and she did not require extra
exogenous steroids. She was, however, given a stress dose of
Solu Medrol 10 mg for 3 days, and then was able to be
transferred back to her regular dose of prednisone. The
patient continued to improve in the postoperative day period,
and after successfully diuresing off some extra fluid, she
was deemed fit for transfer to the floor. By the time she was
discharged, however, she had yet to be moved to the floor,
and of note, further studies during her stay in the intensive
care unit including a CAT scan of the abdomen which revealed
a questionable hypodense lesion at the level of the ampulla
and the head of the pancreas. An MRC was recommended to
exclude a mass. The patient was deemed not fit for this study
at this time due to the fact that she had been recently on
vasopressor agents, and the fact that this was considered to
be a questionable finding upon discussion with the
radiologist, and there was no 