Admission Date:  [**2190-5-10**]       Discharge Date:  [**2190-5-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2118-10-1**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medical Oncology

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 71-year-old man
with a history of non-small cell lung cancer complicated by
brain metastases that were resected on [**2190-3-16**].  He was
presented to our mergency department with shortness of breath. He
was in his usual state of health until 2-3 days prior to
admission when he began experiencing shortness of breath and
fatigue.  He went to an outside hospital, where he was noted to
have a temperature of 99.2 F, heart rate of 106, oxygen
saturation of 89% on 2 liters of oxygen by nasal cannula and
subsequently 92% on 6 liters of oxygen by nasal cannula, and a
blood pressure of 53/31.  He had a head CT scan that was
negative.  He was given dexamethasone 4 mg IV x 1, 2 liters of IV
fluids, and then transferred to the [**Hospital1 188**].

Upon arrival at the [**Hospital1 69**], the
patient was found to be markedly hypoxic with an oxygen
saturation of 92% on 100% nonrebreather face mask.  A subsequent
arterial blood gas demonstrated a pH of 7.44, pCO2 of 34, and pO2
of 57.  He was given ceftriaxone and metronidazole, as well as
100 mg of hydrocortisone intravenously.  The patient was started
on low dose dopamine for his hypotension and was transferred to
the MICU.

Of note, the patient reportedly had a CT angiogram done at the
outside hospital that demonstrated a persistent left upper lobe
mass, small bilateral pleural effusions, and small segmental
pulmonary emboli on the right.  Although, the initial of
anticoagulation was considered due to this finding, it was held
initially because the patient reported bright red blood per
rectum for several days prior to admission, and also because of
his history of brain metastases.

Because of the brain metastases, a neurosurgery consult was
requested prior to the initiation of Heparin drip.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Non-small cell lung cancer complicated by left frontal
brain metastases status post resection on [**2190-3-16**].
2. Severe emphysema with a diffusion capacity of 52% of
predicted on pulmonary function tests done on [**2190-4-15**].

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Dexamethasone 2 mg po q day.
2. Phenytoin 100 mg po tid.
3. Lansoprazole 30 mg po q day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in [**Location 2624**], [**State 350**] with
his family.  He has a 75 pack year smoking history and was still
actively smoking at the of his admission to the hospital.  He
occasionally drinks alcohol.  He formally worked in the Navy.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's mother died at age [**Age over 90 **] of old age.
The patient's father died at age 53 and may have had a history of
pulmonary disease of unclear etiology.  The patient's brother
died of an ischemic stroke.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On initial physical examination, the
patient's temperature was 102.7 F, heart rate 104, blood pressure
97/53, respiratory rate 24, and oxygen saturation was 90% on 100%
non-rebreather face mask.  Patient was found to be a pleasant man
in mild respiratory distress.  His sclerae were anicteric and he
had no jugular venous distention.  His heart rate was tachycardic
and there were normal S1, S2 heart sounds.  He had diffuse
rhonchi on pulmonary auscultation with expiratory wheezes.  His
abdomen was soft, non-tender, non-distended, and there were
normoactive bowel sounds.  He had no peripheral edema, no calf
tenderness, and warm extremities throughout.  He was alert and
oriented x 3 and was mentating well.  He was reportedly trace
guaiac positive on rectal examination.

Chest X-ray done on the day of admission demonstrated no evidence
of congestive heart failure or pneumonia.  Also seen was interval
increase in the size of a previously evident left lung nodule
with development of a probable satellite lesion; these findings
were highly suggestive of malignancy.  There was also a small
left sided pleural effusion.

The patient then had a CT scan of the chest done on the day of
admission that was initially read as demonstrating a right
posterior segmental pulmonary embolus, as well as interval
increase in the size of the left lower lobe lung mass.  He then
had a head CT scan that demonstrated no evidence for a new
appreciable intracranial hemorrhage.  Bilateral lower extremity
non-invasive studies also done on the day of admission
demonstrated no evidence of DVT.

Patient's initial laboratory evaluations demonstrated a white
blood cell count of 20.1 (differential 86% neutrophils, 2% bands,
9% lymphocytes, 3% monocytes).  Hematocrit 41.4, platelet count
of 197,000.  His serum sodium was 133, potassium 4.4, chloride
99, bicarb 24, BUN 31, creatinine 1.3, glucose 77, potassium 7.7,
magnesium 1.8, and phosphate 4.8.  His ALT was 100, AST 59, and
amylase 74.  His urinalysis demonstrated a specific gravity of
1.007, small blood, trace protein, trace ketones, and was
otherwise negative for any infectious process.

His electrocardiogram demonstrated a sinus tachycardia at 100
beats per minute, rightward axis, and incomplete right bundle
branch block, and had no significant change compared with an
electrocardiogram dated [**2190-3-15**].

HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEMS:
1. Shortness of breath and hypoxemia:  The patient's dyspnea and
hypoxemia were initially attributed to a pulmonary embolus as
noted above.  However, after consultation with multiple
pulmonologists and radiologists, it was concluded that there was
no definitive evidence of a pulmonary embolus on the admission CT
scan.  Because of this determination, the patient was not
anticoagulated on admission.

Also as noted above, there was no evidence of either pneumonia or
congestive heart failure on the admission imaging studies.
However, the patient remained persistently hypoxemic and dyspneic
on the first several days of hospitalization.  An empiric trial
of diuresis was therefore attempted; while the patient had
increased urine output with this attempt, his dyspnea and
hypoxemia did not improve.

He was also covered with broad-spectrum antibiotics including
levofloxacin and metronidazole on admission for empiric coverage
of a possible infectious process given his admission with fever
and hypotension.  At no point during his hospitalization,
however, did the patient have any evidence of a clear infectious
process.

In the absence of any definitive explanation of the patient's
dyspnea and hypoxemia, the etiology of his admission dyspnea and
hypoxemia was attributed to a congestive obstructive pulmonary
disease exacerbation superimposed on the patient's poor
underlying pulmonary function.  He was initially treated with
stress dosed steroids.  These steroids were rapidly tapered down
his admission dose of dexamethasone; he was subsequently
restarted on stress-dosed steroids when he later developed an
episode of adrenal insufficiency as noted below.

The patient was discharged with plans for a very gradual steroid
taper, as well as continued use of oxygen initially at
rehabilitation and subsequently at home.

2. Hypotension:  As noted above, the patient was hypotensive on
admission to the hospital.  Low dose dopamine was utilized to
maintain normotension during the first two days of his admission
in the Intensive Care Unit.  The patient's blood pressure
subsequently normalized, and he did not require further
administration of pressors during this hospitalization.  He did
subsequently develop a second episode of hypotension as noted
above; however, this episode was attributed to adrenal
insufficiency, and his hypotension resolved with administration
of stress dosed steroids.

3. Adrenal insufficiency:  The patient was transferred from
the Intensive Care Unit to the Medicine Oncology Service on [**2190-5-15**].  On arrival to the Medicine floor, the patient was
febrile to 102 F.  He was arousable only to vigorous stimulation.
His antibiotic coverage was at that time broaden to include
Vancomycin, ceftriaxone, and metronidazole in order to provide
empiric coverage for a possible Intensive Care Unit 