Admission Date:  [**2109-3-7**]       Discharge Date:  [**2109-3-20**]

Date of Birth:   [**2034-4-19**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Company 191**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Unable to swallow.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old
male with multiple medical problems and recent
hospitalization for left lower extremity ulcer infected with
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

The patient was directly admitted from home for a decreasing
ability to take p.o. secondary to throat pain when
swallowing.  The patient has a history of throat cancer and
status post surgery and radiation therapy.  The patient
denies abdominal pain and nausea but does admit to lack of
appetite.  He says his clothes are fitting loosely and has
apparently lost a lot of weight in the last month or two.
The patient states that he was admitted "to get a feeding
tube."

Of note, the patient has old pacemaker wires in his abdomen
which may complicate percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube
placement.  The patient is also on Coumadin for atrial
fibrillation and reportedly has not taken his Coumadin in
three days.  However, his latest INR drawn on [**3-6**]
was 9.5.  The patient undergoes hemodialysis on Monday,
Wednesday and Friday which should be continued while in the
hospital.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of
less than 15% by echocardiogram in [**2108-12-21**].
 2.  End-stage renal disease (on hemodialysis three times per
week).
 3.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction times two, with percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty to the circumflex.
 4.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
 5.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (on Coumadin).
 6.  History of ventricular tachycardia; status post
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placement.
 7.  Pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary fibrosis secondary
to amiodarone toxicity.
 8.  Hypertension.
 9.  Status post throat cancer for which he was treated with
radiation therapy.
10.  History of diabetes.
11.  History of colon cancer, status post colectomy.
12.  History of gout.
13.  Hypothyroidism.
14.  Peripheral vascular disease with chronic lower extremity
ulcer.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d.,
Colace 100 mg p.o. q.d., Synthroid 50 mcg p.o. q.d., Coumadin
4 mg p.o. q.h.s., Tums 1 tablet p.o. t.i.d., Nephrocaps 1
tablet p.o. b.i.d., Xanax 0.25 mg p.o. q.h.s., pravastatin 20
mg p.o. q.h.s., trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s., Tylenol No. 3
p.r.n., levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.o.d., Flagyl 500 mg p.o.
b.i.d., vitamin C, and vancomycin (which is dosed at
dialysis).

ALLERGIES:

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with wife at home.  He has
a daughter who is a nurse and extremely involved in his care.
He has no history of tobacco, and no current alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature of 95.9,
blood pressure of 86/63, heart rate of 88, respiratory rate
of 20, satting 100% on room air.  The patient was a pale,
cachectic male lying in bed, and appeared sleepy.  Pupils
were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Mucous membranes
were dry.  Tongue was red and smooth.  Extraocular movements
were intact.  Heart was irregular.  No murmurs.  The point of
maximal impulse was laterally displaced.  Chest had bibasilar
crackles, and a pacemaker was noted in the right upper chest
wall.  The abdomen was soft, normal active bowel sounds,
wires were noted in the right abdominal wall.  Extremities
revealed bilateral pitting edema.  Venous stasis changes
bilaterally.  The patient had a dressing over the left lower
leg.  His toes were cool with nonpalpable dorsalis pedis
pulses.  Neurologic examination revealed cranial nerves were
intact.  The patient was weak but moved all four extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed a white blood cell count of 10.9,
hematocrit of 51, platelets of 189 (70 neutrophils, 4 bands,
12 lymphocytes).  Sodium of 142, potassium of 5.5, chloride
of 104, bicarbonate of 22, blood urea nitrogen of 51,
creatinine of 6.2, blood sugar of 131.  Albumin of 3.2,
calcium of 9.6, phosphate of 4.6, magnesium of 2.1.  Iron
of 100.  INR of 5.1.  Digoxin level of 4.2.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was quite
complicated and marked by two trips to the Intensive Care
Unit.  Of note, on admission, the patient was noted to be
digoxin toxic, and his digoxin was held throughout his
hospitalization.  There were no electrocardiogram changes
concerning for digoxin toxicity, and the patient was
asymptomatic.  The patient's blood pressure on admission was
notably low, in the 80s/50s.  According to his family, his
blood pressure did run on the low side.  It was felt by the
team that he was severely dehydrated due to poor oral intake
over the past few weeks.  He was gently hydrated due a known
ejection fraction of 10%.

On [**3-8**], status post dialysis, the patient became
hypotensive to the 70s and was admitted to the Intensive Care
Unit briefly for further monitoring.  He received more
intravenous fluids at that point.  The Medical Intensive Care
Unit stay was short, and he was called back out to the floor
on [**3-9**].

A percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube was placed on
[**3-11**]; and, of note, the patient got 600 cc of lactated
Ringer's intraoperatively as well as Fentanyl.

Overnight, following the procedure, the patient was
persistently hypotensive in the 70s/30s and did not respond
to fluid boluses.  The patient was admitted back to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit on [**3-10**] for hypotension
refractory to intravenous fluids.  The patient was maintained
on a dopamine drip for several days for a blood pressure in
the 90s.  There was some confusion as to his volume status,
not being clear whether he was dehydrated or volume
overloaded, and with his low ejection fraction, he had been
pushed off the Starling curve.

On [**3-15**], the patient was dialyzed off 2 liters of fluid
which then enabled the dopamine to be weaned off.  Again, on
[**3-16**], an additional 2 liters were dialyzed off.  The
patient was stable off dopamine for 24 hours with a blood
pressure in the 90s, and he was transferred out to the floor
on [**3-16**].

The patient initially was stable on the floor but was noted
to have increasing tachypnea over [**3-17**] and [**3-18**].  On
[**3-19**], upon evaluation by the team, the patient was
increasingly tachypneic, more somnolent, and was feeling very
poorly to the point where he said, "I just want to die."  An
arterial blood gas was done and revealed an acidosis with a
pH of 7.22, a PCO2 of 50, and a PO2 of 129 on 4 liters nasal
cannula.  A STAT chest x-ray revealed a large right-sided
pleural effusion, and when compared with previous x-rays was
read as increasing bilateral effusions, right greater than
left.   The effusion was drained by ultrasound guidance by
the Radiology team, and approximately 1.2 liters were taken
off.  The patient had improved respiratory status after and
appeared more comfortable.  Fluid studies were pending at the
time of this dictation.

Other issues during this hospitalization included his
nutritional status.  The patient was originally treated with
intravenous fluid hydration as noted above prior to
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placement.

A gastrojejunostomy tube was placed by Interventional
Radiology on [**3-11**] without any complications.  The patient
tolerated the procedure well and was immediately started on
.................... for tube feeds.  This was changed to
Nepro on [**3-19**] due to his renal failure.  The patient
continued to tolerate tube feeds well and will be sent home
on Nepro tube feeds with a goal of 50 cc per hour.

The patient's renal status was basically stable throughout
this hospitalization.  He continued to be dialyzed on Monday,
Wednesday and Friday.  There were no complications.

Infectious Disease issues included continuation of Flagyl,
levofloxacin, and vancomycin for his left lower extremity
ulcer.  The Vascular team did come by and see the patient and
recommended continuing wet-to-dry dressing changes b.i.d. as
well as to keep pressure o