Admission Date: [**2158-5-22**]        Discharge Date: [**2158-6-9**]

Date of Birth:  [**2096-4-23**]        Sex:  M

Service:  TRANSPLANT SURGERY


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 62-year-old male with end-
stage liver disease, cirrhosis secondary to alcohol,
encephalopathy, peripheral edema, ascites requiring
paracentesis, upper gastrointestinal bleed from grade 2
varices one time, portal hypertension hepatocellular
carcinoma non-metastatic, status post radiofrequency ablation
in [**2157-11-7**], followed for availability of liver
transplant.  The patient is without new complaints at the
time of admission.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lasix 40 mg once a day.
2. Lactulose one tablespoon once a day.
3. Propranolol 40 mg twice a day.
4. Lithium 900 mg once a day.
5. Protonix 40 mg twice a day.
6. Spironolactone 100 mg twice a day.
7. Mycelex five.
8. Meclizine 25 mg once a day.
9. NPH insulin 100 units q. a.m., 50 units q. p.m.
10.      Doxazosin 1 mg once a day.


PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Upon admission this patient was
afebrile with stable vital signs with a weight of 120.0
kilograms.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination was
normal.  Neck was supple.  Lungs clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Cardiovascular examination:  Regular rate and
rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdominal examination:
Revealed mild ascites, non-tender throughout.  Extremity
examination revealed 1 plus ankle edema.

LABORATORY ON ADMISSION:  Hematocrit 38.5, white blood cell
count 11.2, platelet count 140,000.  Sodium 143, potassium
3.4, chloride 103, carbon dioxide 34, blood urea nitrogen 16,
creatinine 1.0, glucose level 50.  Calcium 10.0, phosphorus
82.6, magnesium 1.6.  AST was 61, ALT was 52 and alk phos was
83.  Total bilirubin was 1.7.  His prothrombin time was 14.3,
his PTT was 26.4.  His fibrinogen was 267 and his INR was
1.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  So at this time the patient was admitted
with end-stage liver disease for a liver transplant.  He was
placed nil per os.  Consent was signed.  CellCept, Solu-
Medrol, Unasyn, fluconazole were started.  Labs were drawn.
Urinalysis was performed.  A chest x-ray was performed and an
electrocardiogram was performed.  Anesthesia consent was also
obtained as he was seen by their staff.

On [**2158-5-23**], liver transplant was performed under
general anesthesia.  The patient was brought to the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit after the operation.  The patient was
progressing well at this time and on postoperative day one
the plan was to use morphine sulfate for pain as needed.  A
transesophageal echocardiogram had shown residual clot and
adequate biventricular function.  A chest x-ray was sent and
the patient was weaned off of FiO2.  The patient was also nil
per os at this time and on an nasogastric tube.  The patient
was also on a Foley catheter to follow urine output closely.
Infectious Disease:  The patient was placed on Unasyn times
three days.  The patient was also transfused platelets, fresh
frozen plasma and cryoprecipitate at this time and the
patient began the immunosuppressive regimen with Solu-Medrol
at 140 twice a day, CellCept 1 gram twice a day, ________
times one intraoperatively and, in terms of endocrine,
patient was placed on a regular insulin sliding scale at this
time with a plan to move to an insulin drip if glucose levels
trended upwards.  The patient continued to progress well
during his stay and continued to oxygenate well and was able
to be weaned off of oxygen, FiO2 as he was weaned off of
propofol at this time.  Prophylactic medications, Bactrim and
fluconazole, were continued at this time.

The patient continued to progress well at this time and on
the [**5-25**] propofol was discontinued.  An
electrocardiogram was taken showing no ischemic changes.  The
patient did not need a beta blocker at this time.  Patient
was receiving Nipride which was being held for systolic blood
pressure less than 160.  The patient was given Lasix to
diurese and established an adequate urine output.  The
patient was started on total parenteral nutrition and Unasyn
was discontinued at this time.

On [**2158-5-26**], the patient continued to progress taking
Dilaudid p.r.n. for pain at this time.  Stable vital signs.
Patient receiving CPAP and his total bilirubin and other
liver function tests including ALT and AST continued to trend
downward.  Good bile output out of the drain.  His liver
function tests on this day were 155 for AST, 614 for ALT and
64 for alk phos.  The previous day on [**5-25**] were AST of
252, ALT of 309 and alk phos of 65.  The patient was
continued on Lasix diuresis and continued on prophylactic
Bactrim, fluconazole and ganciclovir.  The patient at this
time was on an insulin drip.

The patient continued to progress on the [**5-27**] and was
being followed at this time by the inpatient clinical
Nutrition team.  They recommended titrating insulin drip as
needed and set up a TPN to regiment with a goal of 2,150
kilocalories per day.

On [**2158-5-28**], the patient continued to progress well.
His wound was noted to be without pus or erythema at this
time.  He was continued on Dilaudid as needed for pain.  He
was still being followed by the SICU team in the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit.  At this time patient was able to change
to largely oral medications.  He had stable respiratory
status and was now off of ventilation.

On postoperative day nine, [**5-30**], the patient continued
to be stable but appeared somewhat confused upon examination.
It was recommended at this time the patient be transferred to
the floor and later in the day he was transferred to [**Hospital Ward Name 121**] 10.
Date of extubation for this patient was [**5-28**].  The
patient began to be evaluated by Physical Therapy on [**2158-5-29**].

On [**2158-5-31**], it was noted they found the patient to be
alert and oriented but mildly inappropriate with tangential
speech.  They noting that he was practicing even coordinated
breathing.  Their general impression was that this man's
mobility would improve.  He was tolerating being out-of-bed
well but that he would require short term rehabilitation upon
discharge to maximize functional status.  They also stated
that his potential to return to baseline was good.  They
recommended one to three more weeks of physical therapy or
until discharge to rehabilitation.

The patient began to be followed by the [**Last Name (un) **] consult team
on the [**6-1**].  The [**Last Name (un) **] attending noted that the
patient was now transitioning to eating meals and suggested
starting Lentes and Humalog regimen.  As per their request
after they reviewed the chart they noted that his prior
regimen was likely suboptimal and that his insulin needs
would be significantly different after this liver
transplantation due to the effects of steroids and his new
liver and they began to discuss outpatient regimens for the
patient.  The patient was also receiving Occupational Therapy
evaluations and it was noted on [**2158-6-1**], by
Occupational Therapy that patient was minimally confused and
that he would likely need rehabilitation prior to returning
home.

On the [**6-2**] the patient continued to progress well,
complained of some mild abdominal pain but noted significant
improvement since the immediate postoperative time.  There
were noted to be multiple ecchymotic areas over his right
upper extremity at this time and four to five skin
ulcerations on his left upper extremity.  Ancef 1 gram every
eight hours was started at this time and a full HUS workup
was commenced and Hematology was consulted.  A blood smear
was sent that was viewed by Hematology not to contain any
schistocytes and that most likely a hemolytic-uremic syndrome
workup was not necessarily warranted but that they would
follow the results.

On postoperative day 12, [**6-3**], the patient continued to
progress well and began to be screened for rehabilitation.
He continued to be followed by [**Last Name (un) **] for glucose levels and
was continued on Ancef at this time.  His vital signs were
stable and the patient was without pain at this time.  He was
passing gas and having bowel movements and was noted an
increased appetite.  Th