Admission Date:  [**2151-5-22**]     Discharge Date:  [**2151-6-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2079-8-20**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Briefly, this is a 71-year-old
male with a past medical history significant for coronary
artery disease and congestive heart failure who presented
with a 2-day history of abdominal pain and bloating.  He had
been having nausea but denied any vomiting and was passing
flatus and had a hard bowel movement earlier that day.  He
denied any fevers, chills, chest pain, or shortness of breath
and was having normal urine noting no darkness and no light
colored stools.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (The patient's past medical history is
significant for)
1.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction and status post coronary artery bypass graft in
[**2140**].
2.  Congestive heart failure.
3.  Atrial fibrillation; status post ablation.
4.  Gout.
5.  Severe psoriasis.
6.  Arthritis.
7.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
8.  Hypertension.
9.  High cholesterol.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  (Past surgical history is significant
for)
1.  Coronary artery bypass graft.
2.  Removal of skin tags.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (The patient's medications
included)
 1.  Lasix 60 mg p.o. twice per day.
 2.  Spironolactone 25 mg p.o. once per day.
 3.  Atenolol 100 mg p.o. once per day.
 4.  Lipitor 20 mg p.o. once per day.
 5.  Folate.
 6.  Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. once per day.
 7.  Proscar 5 mg p.o. once per day.
 8.  Allopurinol 200 mg p.o. q.h.s.
 9.  Methotrexate 5 p.o. every week and then 2.5 p.o. every
day.
10.  Coumadin 5 mg p.o. once per day.
11.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. once per day.

ALLERGIES:   He has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient was afebrile, temperature was 100.6, and
his other vital signs were stable.  He was alert and oriented
and in no acute distress.  His sclerae were anicteric.  His
lungs were clear.  His heart was regular.  His abdomen was
soft, obese, distended, tympanitic, and tender in the right
upper quadrant with no guarding and no rebound.  Rectal was
guaiac-negative with normal tone.  Extremities were warm and
well perfused with no edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed white blood cell count was 21, his hematocrit was
34.2, and his platelet count was 238.  His chemistries were
within normal limits except for a creatinine of 1.3.  His
coagulations revealed INR was 3.5.  His ALT and AST were 11
and 19; respectively.  His alkaline phosphatase was 73.  His
total bilirubin was slightly elevated at 1.5.  His amylase
was 52.  His lipase was 17.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray was done in the
Emergency Department which showed mild pulmonary edema;
consistent with early congestive heart failure.

A KUB showed no dilated loops and no evidence of obstruction.

Computed tomography showed acute cholecystitis with a large
distended gallbladder with thickened wall and pericholecystic
fluid and inflammation with a low attenuation lesion in the
left lobe of the liver; consistent with a phlegmon.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted to the hospital
and made nothing by mouth.  He was given intravenous fluids
and antibiotics.  However, he did not improve on hospital day
one, and it was decided that the patient would need a
cholecystostomy tube placement.  The patient had immediate
emergent reversal of his INR with fresh frozen plasma.   He
was given 8 units of fresh frozen plasma to correct his INR;
however, his INR remained continued elevated to 1.9.
Therefore, an Interventional Radiology cholecystostomy tube
placement was unable to be performed.  Therefore, the patient
was taken to the operating room on [**2151-5-22**] where an
open cholecystostomy tube was performed.  Please see the
Operative Report for further details.

The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit
postoperatively for fluid resuscitation and close monitoring
due to his heart.  Cardiology was consulted prior to the
operation for a preoperative evaluation.  They felt that
because of the emergent nature of the operation to go ahead
with the procedure and also felt that there was no clear
indication for the patient to be on Coumadin.  Therefore, it
was stopped.

The patient did well postoperatively.  However, he continued
to require fluid for resuscitation.  Because of his septic
physiology, the patient was started on broad-spectrum
antibiotics including penicillin, levofloxacin, and Flagyl
and was continued on that for a total of a 21-day course.

The patient continued to improve in the Intensive Care Unit
and was slowly getting better.  Therefore, it was decided the
patient could be transferred to the floor.  Gentle diuresis
was begun due to the patient's tenuous cardiac status.  He
tolerated this well.  The patient was started on total
parenteral nutrition postoperatively due to the suspected
long period of nothing by mouth status.  The patient was also
kept with an nasogastric tube in place for the first three
postoperative days due to the extreme amount of inflammation
in his abdomen.

Physical Therapy was consulted for ambulation and for
strength training.  He did well and it was felt that the
patient could to home when medically stable.

He slowly improved throughout his hospital course and after
beginning to pass flatus his nasogastric tube was removed and
his diet was advanced.  The patient did well with clears and
was taking a decent amount of a clear liquid diet; therefore,
his total parenteral nutrition was stopped, and his central
line was removed and cultured.  The patient's white blood
cell count was rising at that time but started to return to
normal after removal of the central line.  He had a repeat
computed tomography scan to re-evaluate the abdominal cavity;
specifically the hepatic low attenuation lesion which looked
unchanged from the prior computed tomography scan, and the
inflammation had reduced.  Therefore, it was decided that the
patient could follow up for further planned operative removal
of his gallbladder at a future time.

The patient continued to do well, and his diet was advanced.
He was tolerating a soft/solid diet postoperatively, and he
continued to do well on that.

On [**2151-5-30**], the patient was unable to void with his
Foley catheter removed.  Therefore, a new Foley catheter was
placed.  The patient had the Foley catheter removed again,
and given his doses of Flomax Physical Therapy felt that he
was doing well and comfortable on his ambulation.  Therefore,
it was decided that the patient could be discharged home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
 1.  Gangrenous cholecystitis.
 2.  Status post open cholecystostomy tube.
 3.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction and status post coronary artery bypass graft.
 4.  Congestive heart failure.
 5.  Atrial fibrillation; status post ablation.
 6.  Gout.
 7.  Psoriasis.
 8.  Arthritis.
 9.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
10.  Hypertension.
11.  High cholesterol.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  (Discharge medications were)
 1.  Lasix 60 mg p.o. twice per day.
 2.  Spironolactone 25 mg p.o. once per day.
 3.  Atenolol 100 mg p.o. once per day.
 4.  Lipitor 20 mg p.o. once per day.
 5.  Folate.
 6.  Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. once per day.
 7.  Proscar 5 mg p.o. once per day.
 8.  Allopurinol 200 mg p.o. q.h.s.
 9.  Methotrexate 5 p.o. every week and then 2.5 p.o. every
day.
10.  Coumadin (discontinue).
11.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. once per day.
12.  Percocet one to two tablets p.o. q.4h. as needed (for
pain).
13.  Colace 100 mg p.o. twice per day (as a stool softener).
14.  Levofloxacin 750 mg p.o. once per day (for 11 further
days for a planned completion of a 21-day course).
15.  Flagyl 500 mg p.o. three times per day (for 11 further
days).
16.  Penicillin 500 mg p.o. four times per day (for 11
further days to complete a 21-day course).

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient was discharged to home.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOWUP:   He was given [**Hospital6 3429**] services for drain care and management of
his open cholecystostomy tube.






                