Admission Date:  [**2147-10-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2147-10-18**]


Service:

                       ADDENDUM

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Since the last dictation summary, the
patient has been recatheterized with no intervention
performed.  The stents of the left anterior descending artery
and left circumflex artery were found to be patent.  The
patient was transferred from the CCU to the floor.

On telemetry, the patient had multiple episodes of premature
ventricular contractions and occasional runs of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia.  Therefore, she was taken for ICD
placement which was performed without any complication.

Otherwise, in terms of her cardiac function, on her last
echocardiogram, her ejection fraction remained 20-25%, with
an apical aneurysm, and akinesis.  There was severe left
ventricular systolic dysfunction.  She was therefore
increased on her beta-blocker to Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
She was temporarily begun on Captopril 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Aldactone 25 mg p.o. t.i.d., and Lasix 60 mg p.o. q.d., but
was discontinued off these last three medications given
worsening renal function.  Otherwise, the patient's rhythm
remains stable after replacement of the ICD.  She was given
Amiodarone for one day, and this was subsequently
discontinued.

In terms of ischemia, the patient was put on Imdur 60 mg p.o.
q.d. and Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.  She also was given Plavix
75 mg p.o. q.d. and Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d.  She had daily
I&Os and daily weights measured and remained stable at a
weight of approximately 58 kg.

In terms of her pulmonary function, the patient required
oxygen temporarily due to left lower lobe atelectasis.  Her
congestive heart failure continued to improve, although she
did have a left pleural effusion.  She was encouraged to use
incentive spirometry.

Otherwise, in terms of her renal function, the patient's
creatinine escalated from 1.1 to 2.0 and then began to trend
downward again to a creatinine of 1.8.  Her ................
at this time was 0.2%, and her urinalysis showed no
eosinophils.  It was therefore thought that the patient might
have a prerenal picture, and her Lasix was held.

In terms of her hematologic function, the patient's
hematocrit fluctuated widely throughout her hospitalization;
however, after her transfer to the floor, she required no
more units of blood.  She was found to have some blood in the
toilet on one day of her hospitalization; however, a rectal
exam was performed which was guaiac negative with soft brown
stool.  She had some pain on exam which suggested possible
external hemorrhoid.

The patient also had increased platelets during her
hospitalization, but this began to trend down towards the end
of her hospital course.

In terms of infectious disease, the patient remained afebrile
after transfer to the floor.  Her white blood cells remained
stable.  Therefore, the patient was encouraged to use
incentive spirometry for the left lower lobe atelectasis.

In terms of prophylaxis, the patient was continued on
Protonix.  She continues to ambulate with Physical Therapy,
with nursing, and with her family.  Otherwise, the patient
had occasional complaints of chest pain for which multiple
electrocardiograms were performed without change.  However,
x-ray was done which showed fractures of the fifth and
seventh ribs.  For that, the patient was placed on standing
Tylenol, given that she could not receive NSAIDs due to her
renal function and given that she received narcotics multiple
times with increasing confusion and nausea.  The patient's
pain was well controlled with 1000 mg of Tylenol q.8 hours
and Oxycodone p.r.n.

The patient was also started on Zoloft for depression 25 mg
p.o. q.d. and was given Zyprexa p.r.n. for agitation and
psychotic thoughts.  The patient continued to improve in
terms of he mental status delirium as she spent more time
with her family.

Otherwise, the patient will be discharged on [**10-18**]
presumably in stable condition to [**Hospital 47**] Rehabilitation
Center.

FOLLOW-UP:  She will follow-up in the Device Clinic on
[**2147-10-25**], at 1:30 p.m.  She will follow-up with her
primary care physician in one week.  She will be given a
number for the Cardiology Clinic to follow-up shortly.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. t.i.d., Imdur
60 mg p.o. q.d., Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 20 mg p.o.
q.d., Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d., Coumadin 2 mg p.o. q.h.s.,
Oxycodone 5 mg p.o. p.r.n. pain, Zyprexa 5 mg p.o. p.r.n.
agitation, Zoloft 25 mg p.o. q.d., Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
[**Doctor First Name **] 60 mg p.o. q.d., Tylenol 1000 mg p.o. q.8, Orabase
dental paste 1 application GP q.d., Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.,
Artificial Tears O.U. p.r.n.

The patient's Captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d., Lasix 40 mg p.o.
q.d., and Aldactone 25 mg p.o. q.d. are being held secondary
to her increased creatinine.  It has been noted under page 1
to restart these medications as her renal function improved,
and she will have frequent checks of her creatinine and her
INR at rehabilitation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post anterior myocardial
infarction with apical akinesis and aneurysm.  The patient is
status post left anterior descending and left circumflex
stenting.
2.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of
20-25%.
3.  Persistent left pleural effusion.
4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Depression.
7.  Rib fractures.
8.  Status post ICD placement for ventricular tachycardia.
9.  Oral ulcer.
10. Sinus congestion.

The patient will be provided with copies of her
catheterization report and her ICD report for follow-up with
her primary care physician.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1008**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1009**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 10182**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2147-10-17**]  16:30
T:  [**2147-10-17**]  14:44
JOB#:  [**Job Number 41431**]
