Admission Date:  [**2120-10-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2120-12-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2073-9-6**]       Sex:  M

Service:  BLUE SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 47 year-old
male with a history of a stab wound to the left chest and to
the left back and the left flank on [**2120-6-16**].  At that time
he had undergone a right thoracoscopy and a left
thoracoscopy and an exploratory laparotomy on [**2120-7-8**]
when he was found to have a hematoma of the transverse
mesocolon of the splenic flexure.  Because of his unstable
state the patient was taken to the Surgical Intensive Care
Unit after stabilizing the hematoma controlling the bleeding
and was taken back to the Operating Room for closure of his
abdomen on [**2120-7-10**].  The patient subsequently was found
to have an ischemic splenic flexure of the colon on [**2120-7-17**] and underwent a segmental colectomy at the splenic
flexure and the transverse colostomy with [**Doctor Last Name 3379**] pouch.
the patient subsequently underwent a right colectomy and
ileostomy after the becoming septic and was found to have a
right colonic infarction on [**2120-8-9**].  The patient was
discharged and underwent an elective reversal ileostomy and
ileocolostomy with side to side anastomosis and lysis of
adhesions on [**2120-10-18**].  The patient was discharged
after that surgery and is now admitted to [**Hospital1 346**] on [**2120-10-29**] after having
thought to have elevated white blood cell count and abdominal
pain when he presented to an outside hospital Emergency
Department.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Significant as mentioned above.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for anxiety.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient drinks a half a pint of Vodka
three times a month usually associated with his stress
attacks.  The patient is a smoker averaging about one pack
per day for thirty years.  The patient denies any intravenous
or illicit drug use. He is reportedly homeless and sleeps on
the street or shelters or occasionally at his sister's place.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Combivent inhaler.
2.  Ativan 0.5 mg po q 6 hours prn.
3.  Oxycodone 5 to 10 mg po q 4 hours prn.
4.  Tylenol.
5.  Ibuprofen.
6.  One can of Boost at each meal.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  The patient was afebrile
at 99.6.  Heart rate of 82.  Blood pressure 128/60.
Respiratory rate 18.  O2 sat 100% on room air.  Potassium
4.9.  The patient was alert and oriented times three in
moderate distress secondary to pain.  Alkaline phosphatase
was 54.  HEENT normocephalic, atraumatic head.  Supple neck.
Normal examination of the oropharynx unchanged from prior
admission.  Cardiovascular examination regular rate and
rhythm.  S1 and S2 without any murmurs.  Respirations clear
to auscultation bilaterally.  No crackles, wheezes or
rhonchi.  Abdominal examination the patient was with good
bowel sounds, soft, but very tender to palpation
throughout the abdomen.  There was no rebound appreciated.
The abdominal wounds were clean, dry and intact without any
erythema or tenderness focal to the incision.  The peripheral
examinations were with good palpable pulses.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   his significant abdominal examination the
patient was started on Ampicillin, Levofloxacin and Flagyl.
The patient was made NPO and he was supported with
intravenous fluids.  On hospital day two the patient
underwent a CT of the abdomen and pelvis, which showed an
intraabdominal fluid collection with enhancing room
throughout the peritoneal cavity, which was found to connect
up with a small pocket of fluid adjacent to the ileocolic
anastomotic site and mid pelvis.  There was also gas noted
within the small pocket of fluid and this was interpreted to
be consistent with an intraabdominal abscess and a possible
anastomotic leak.  There was no evidence of bowel wall
thickening and no evidence of obstruction at that time.  The
patient started developing a fever of a temperature max of
102.5 despite being on intravenous antibiotics with an
unchanged abdominal examination.  Therefore the patient
underwent a CT guided drainage of the abscess on hospital day
three removing approximately 10 cc of purulent substance on
initial insertion and the patient received a pigtail catheter
in the right lower quadrant.  After the procedure the patient
was continued on intravenous antibiotics Ampicillin,
Levofloxacin and Flagyl and continued to receive intravenous
fluids.  The patient was noted to have declining urine output
requiring more then 6 liters of intravenous fluid
resuscitation.  The patient became tachycardic and on
laboratory examination the patient was found to have decrease
in hematocrit from 32.4 to 21.8 over the course of 11 hours.
The patient was also found to be thrombocytopenic with a
platelet count down to 49 and a rise in creatinine to 2.3.
Given these conditions the patient was thought to underwent
an active intraabdominal bleeding or having sepsis with
coagulopathy.  The patient was urgently transferred to the
Trauma Surgical Intensive Care Unit for close monitoring. The
patient was monitored with serial hematocrit checks and was
transfused packed red blood cells and platelets as needed.
The patient underwent a repeat CAT scan of the abdomen and
was found to have a new collection in the upper abdominal
area, which contained air and extravasated barium.  The
pigtail catheter was inserted into this new area of abscess
removing approximately 20 cc of thick viscous brown liquid.

Subsequent to the second CT guided drainage the patient
returned to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit, but
progressively became dyspneic and was having respiratory
difficulty.  The patient was intubated on [**2120-11-4**]
and was urgently taken to the Operating Room for exploratory
laparotomy.  On [**2120-11-4**] the patient successfully
underwent drainage of the intraabdominal abscesses, lysis of
adhesions and a creation of a loop ileostomy.  Please see the
operative report for further details.  The patient left the
Operating Room in critical condition, intubated and returned
to the Trauma Surgical Intensive Care Unit with three JP
drains and continued on intravenous antibiotics including
Vancomycin, Ceftriaxone, Flagyl and Fluconazole.
Preoperatively the patient's creatinine values were rising
and by postoperative day one they were even higher to a value
of 4.2.  The patient was seen by Renal Consult Service,
calculated fraction excretion of sodium (FENA) was 1.9%.  The
patient's urine was shown to have many granular and muddy
brown casts with proteinuria and hematuria, all the finding,
which were consistent with acute renal failure and acute
tubular necrosis.  For management of this intravascular and
extravascular volume the patient underwent hemodialysis.
Postoperatively, the patient was also started on total
parenteral nutrition with minimal volume and a low protein
given his acute renal failure.

With respect to his respiratory system the patient was
intubated and was on the ventilator machine and was able to
tolerate a CPAP with pressure support by postoperative day
three and was successfully extubated on postoperative day
four.  The patient was on Ampicillin and Levofloxacin
preoperatively and postoperatively the patient was on
Vancomycin and Ceftriaxone, Flagyl and Fluconazole.  The
abscess drainage from [**10-31**] grew out pan sensitive
enterococcus eventually.  The second CT guided drainage of
the abscess grew out Levofloxacin resistant enterococcus and
Ceptaz and Cipro resistant Pseudomonas and staph aureus that
was resistant to Levaquin and Penicillin, but sensitive to
Vancomycin.  Postoperatively, the patient also started
developing infection of his pulmonary system with his sputum
cultures growing out Pseudomonas.  Ceftriaxone was changed to
Meropenem and the patient was continued on Vancomycin,
Meropenem, Flagyl and Fluconazole for treatment of his
Pseudomonas pneumonia and intraabdominal infection.
Unfortunately the sputum cultures subsequently grew out
Pseudomonas, but became resistant to Meropenem.  However,
remained sensitive to Zosyn.  When the sensitivities returned
as previously mentioned the patient was t