Admission Date:  [**2177-11-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2177-12-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2114-2-8**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Hospital1 139**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 63 year old
male with a past medical history of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, lung cancer, status post right
pneumonectomy in [**2175-1-26**], complicated by pulmonary artery
laceration, status post transtracheal catheter placement for
oxygen and suctioning who was in his usual state of health
until [**2177-11-24**] when he developed nausea, lower
abdominal pain, and projectile vomiting of nonbloody emesis.
He presented to the [**Hospital6 256**]
Emergency Room on [**2177-11-25**].  At that time he denied
diarrhea, constipation, fevers, chills, hematochezia and
bright red blood per rectum.  He had dark stools at baseline
secondary to iron use.  The stool was found to be guaiac
positive in the Emergency Department.  In the Emergency
Department also his hematocrit value was 19, down from a
baseline of 31 one month previously and he was coagulopathic
with an INR of 9.8.  Attempts to place a nasogastric tube in
the Emergency Department were unsuccessful.  While in the
Emergency Department, he was transfused 4 units of packed red
blood cells, 2 units of fresh frozen plasma, and got 2 mg of
subcutaneous Vitamin K.  The patient was admitted to the
Medicine Floor.  Repeat hematocrit several hours later
dropped to a value of 13.  The nasogastric tube was placed on
the floor with nasogastric lavage negative for fresh blood.
He was, at that point, transferred to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit.  Workup while in the Medical Intensive Care Unit
included two esophagogastroduodenoscopies, both without fresh
blood or old blood but demonstrating a single raised 5 to 7
cm esophageal nodule on an erythematous base at approximately
25 cm.  There was no evidence of stigmata of recent bleeding.
He was stabilized with a total of seven units of packed red
blood cells, seven units of fresh frozen plasma and one unit
of platelets.  He also received intravenous fluid
resuscitation with normal saline.  Computerized tomography
scan of the abdomen was performed which was negative for
diverticuli, perforation or retroperitoneal bleed.
Colonoscopy performed later in the hospital course showed
some polyps, diverticulosis of the sigmoid colon and
descending colon.  Internal hemorrhoids were noted but no
stigmata of recent bleeding.  The patient's coagulopathy was
improving.  His hematocrit was stable, and he was transferred
to the General Medicine Floor on [**2177-11-28**].  Of note,
prior to transfer he developed swelling of the right upper
extremity and complained of pain of the right upper
extremity.  Doppler ultrasound was performed which showed
evidence of a right axillary deep vein thrombosis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease; 2.  Lung cancer, status post right pneumonectomy in
[**2175-1-26**] complicated by pulmonary artery laceration; 3.
Prostate cancer, status post prostatectomy; 4.  History of
perioperative pulmonary embolism; 5.  Atrial fibrillation on
Coumadin; 6.  Hypertension; 7.  Diabetes mellitus 2,
insulin-requiring neuropathy; 8.  Gastroesophageal reflux
disease; 9. Status post transtracheal catheter placement for
oxygen and suctioning; 10.  Cataracts; 11.  Anxiety; 12.
History of transient ischemic attacks; 13.  Obstructive sleep
apnea; 14.  Hypercholesterolemia; 15.  Vitamin B12
deficiency.

ALLERGIES:  Levaquin causes QT interval prolongations.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:  1.  Protonix 40 mg p.o.
q.d.; 2.  Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.;  3.  Neurontin 100 mg p.o.
q.d.; 4.  Paroxetine 30 mg p.o. q.d.; 5.  Iron sulfate 325 mg
p.o. b.i.d.; 6.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; 7.  Glyburide 5
mg p.o. q.d.; 8.  Vitamin B12 1000 mcg p.o. b.i.d.; 9.
Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.; 10.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.;
11.  Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d.; 12.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.;
13. Scopolamine patch transdermal, apply every three days;
14.  Advair discus one puff b.i.d.; 15.  Potassium chloride
40 mEq p.o. b.i.d.; 16.  Senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. as
needed for constipation; 17.  Percocet 1 to 2 tablets as
needed for pain; 18.  Ipratropium nebulizer t.i.d.; 19.
Bactrim double strength p.o. b.i.d.; 20.  Augmentin; 21.
Multivitamin p.o. q.d.; 22.  Regular insulin sliding scale.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient reports that his mother has
coronary artery disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife, retired,
worked previously in construction.  He reports a 160 pack
year tobacco history, quit in [**2174**], quit alcohol in [**2173**].  No
history of intravenous drug use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission
revealed vital signs with temperature of 96.8, blood pressure
90/55, heart rate 90, respiratory rate 12, oxygen saturation
96% on 3 liters.  General appearance:  Well developed, obese
white male, pleasant, comfortable in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Normocephalic,
atraumatic, pupils equal, round and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Sclera and conjunctiva anicteric.
Conjunctiva not injected.  Oropharynx clear.  [**Year (4 digits) **] mucosa
dry.  Neck:  Supple, no masses or lymphadenopathy.
Tracheostomy site, clean, dry and intact.  Lungs:  Right lung
with no breath sounds, left lung with fair air movement,
transmitted upper airway sounds, scattered rhonchi.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm, S1 and S2 heart
sounds auscultated, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen:
Soft, mildly tender to palpation, nondistended, positive
normoactive bowel sounds.  No rebound or guarding.
Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Neurological
examination:  Nonfocal.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory data upon admission revealed
complete blood count demonstrated a white blood cell count
19.2, hematocrit 19.0, platelets 381.  Coagulation profile
showed PT 38.5, PTT 38.0, INR 9.8.  Serum chemistries showed
sodium 139, potassium 3.7, chloride 96, bicarbonate 30, BUN
52, creatinine 1.3, glucose 196.  Liver function tests showed
ALT 18, AST 26, amylase 23, lipase 24, albumin 3.4, alkaline
phosphatase 100.  Cardiac enzymes showed creatinine kinase
82, troponin I 0.04.  Chest x-ray was negative for any acute
pulmonary process.  Abdominal x-ray demonstrated
opacification of the right lung base.  The left lung base was
clear.  There was no free air in the abdomen.  There was a
large amount of fecal material in the right colon.  There was
a normal bowel gas pattern.  There was no evidence of
obstruction.  Later computerized tomography scan of the
abdomen and pelvis demonstrated no intra-abdominal abscess,
bowel inflammation, evidence of perforated ulcer,
appendicitis or diverticulitis.  Electrocardiogram showed
normal sinus rhythm at 93 beats/minute, normal axis,
prolonged QT interval, no left ventricular hypertrophy, T
wave inversions were noted in leads V1 and V2 which were new.
No acute ST elevations or depressions noted.  This was
compared with the prior electrocardiogram from [**2177-10-9**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In summary, this is a 63 year old male with
past medical history of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, lung cancer status post right pneumonectomy in
[**2175-1-26**] complicated by a pulmonary artery laceration,
status post transtracheal catheter placement for oxygen and
suctioning.  He was in his usual state of health until
[**2177-11-24**] when he developed nausea, lower abdominal
pain, projectile vomiting of nonbloody emesis.  His
hematocrit dropped from 31 to a nadir of 13.  His
gastrointestinal workup was unrevealing in the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.

1.  Anemia secondary to acute blood loss - The patient's
gastrointestinal workup included two
esophagogastroduodenoscopies and colonoscopy times one
without source of frank bleed.  However, in light of his
initial complaints of nausea, abdominal pain, and guaiac
positive stool a gastrointestinal source was still suspected.
Physically the small bowel could be the source.  After
stabilization in the Medical Intensive Care Unit with blood
products, fresh frozen plasma and platelets, he was
transferred to the Medicine Floor after h