Admission Date:  [**2175-1-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2175-2-2**]


Service:  CICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 89-year-old
female with a past medical history of hypertension,
hyperlipidemia, and a remote smoking history who presented to
[**Hospital **] Hospital with angina, shortness of breath, and
inferior ST segment elevations on electrocardiogram on
[**2175-1-21**].

Per the patient's son and daughter-in-law, the patient had
been using sublingual nitroglycerin for three weeks prior to
this admission and was not telling anyone.  She has had a
history of angina with uncertain workup, but no
catheterizations previous to this admission.

The patient had severe chest pain and shortness of breath on
[**1-21**].  She called an ambulance and was transported to
[**Hospital **] Hospital.  There, she refused cardiac catheterization
and lytics were not given.  The patient's initial troponin I
was 55.5 on [**1-21**] with a creatine kinase of 2300 (that
peaked on [**1-21**]).  She was managed medically with
heparin, aspirin, Plavix, nitroglycerin, Lopressor, and
captopril.  Her chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema.  She was
given Lasix as needed.

An echocardiogram on [**1-24**] at [**Hospital **] Hospital
demonstrated an ejection fraction of 30%, inferior akinesis,
and 3+ mitral regurgitation.  The patient was also diagnosed
with Klebsiella and Escherichia coli urinary tract infection.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for cardiac catheterization.

Admission catheterization revealed 3-vessel disease.  The
patient's left coronary artery was very short and heavily
calcified.  The left anterior descending artery with a 90%
ostial lesion with evident ulceration.  The left circumflex
was a nondominant vessel with mid segment 90% lesion.  The
right coronary artery dominant with occlusion proximally and
distal flow from left-to-right collaterals.  Right atrial
pressure was 12.  The pulmonary artery pressure was 60/30.
Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was 35.  Cardiac output
was 4.4.  Cardiac index was 2.8.

Status post cardiac catheterization, in the holding area, the
patient went into rapid atrial fibrillation and was given
intravenous Lopressor.  Her heart rate went from 180 to 110s.
Her blood pressure remained stable.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history is significant
for)
1.  Angina.
2.  Dementia.
3.  Thyroid disease.
4.  Glaucoma.
5.  Cataracts.
6.  Grave's disease.
7.  Hypercholesterolemia.
8.  Hypertension.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone.  She was previously
employed as an English teacher.  She graduated from [**University/College 52463**].  She quit smoking 40 years prior.

CODE STATUS:  Code status is do not resuscitate/do not
intubate (per the patient's son who is her health care
proxy).  The patient's son is [**Name (NI) **] [**Name (NI) 8163**] (telephone
number [**Telephone/Fax (1) 52464**]).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (On transfer medications were)
 1.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Captopril 12.5 mg by mouth three times per day
 3.  Plavix 75 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Imdur 60 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Levoxyl 100 mcg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Lopressor 25 mg by mouth twice per day.
 7.  Zocor 10 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Risperidone.
 9.  Aricept.
10.  Colace.
11.  Levaquin 250 mg (times two days).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Examination on
admission revealed the patient's temperature was 97.7, her
heart rate was irregular at 90 to 120, her blood pressure was
97/59, and her oxygen saturation was 98% on 2 liters nasal
cannula.  Physical examination was notable for increased
jugular venous pressure.  There were crackles bilaterally at
the bases on pulmonary examination.  The patient was alert
and oriented times three, but varied depending on when she
was asked.  She was not always alert and oriented.  The
patient had an irregular rhythm.  First heart sounds and
second heart sounds were normal.  No third heart sound.  No
fourth heart sound.  The patient had a [**1-13**] holosystolic
murmur at the apex.  The patient had 2+ pulses throughout.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram on [**1-22**] revealed an inferior ST elevations, and large Q waves.

An echocardiogram on [**2175-1-14**] revealed an ejection
fraction of 30%, 3+ mitral regurgitation, left ventricular
lateral wall akinesis, mid distal posterior wall akinesis,
mid distal inferior wall akinesis, and distal anterior wall
akinesis.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Creatine kinase
values from the outside hospital on [**1-21**] was 234 which
peaked on [**1-21**] at 2324 and trended back down and was
140 on admission.  Troponin I was initially 1.04 and peaked
at 55.5 and was 3.09 on admission to [**Hospital1 190**].  Sodium was notable for being 129 on
admission.  The patient's admission hematocrit was 27.8.
Urine culture was notable for Escherichia coli and Klebsiella
on [**1-27**] (from the outside hospital).  The patient's
thyroid-stimulating hormone on [**1-23**] was 0.54.  Her
cholesterol was 142, her triglycerides were 112, her
high-density lipoprotein was 47, and her low-density
lipoprotein was 73.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   The
patient is an 89-year-old female with cardiac risk factors of
hypertension, high cholesterol, and previous smoking who
presented to an outside hospital with acute ST-elevation
inferior myocardial infarction.  She was managed medically,
per patient wishes.  The patient presents now with
compromises left ventricular function, status post resolution
of her myocardial infarction.  Ejection fraction on admission
documented an outside hospital was 30% with areas of akinesis
and hypokinesis of the left ventricle.

Cardiac catheterization demonstrated severe 3-vessel disease
and elevated filling pressures with moderate-to-severe mitral
regurgitation.  The catheterization was complicated by atrial
fibrillation with a rapid ventricular rate with some response
to intravenous Lopressor.  The patient was not a candidate
for coronary artery bypass graft.  Per her son, her health
care proxy, the patient would never want this; which was
reasonable from a medical standpoint.  No intervention or
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, as the
patient was unlikely to be without complications.  The
decision was made to pursue medical management.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE
ISSUES:  The patient was maintained on her aspirin, Plavix,
and heparin once her sheath was pulled.  She was maintained
on a statin.  The patient underwent no intervention during
this hospitalization.  An ACE inhibitor and beta blocker were
added to her regimen as her blood pressure were tolerate over
the course of her hospital stay and titrated.  The patient
was able to ambulate without anginal symptoms prior to her
discharge to a rehabilitation facility.

(b)  RHYTHM:  The patient was in rapid atrial fibrillation
with some response to intravenous Lopressor.  The patient was
started on an intravenous amiodarone load which was changed
to an oral load.  Her thyroid function tests and liver
function tests were monitored.  Pulmonary function tests were
to be obtained as an outpatient should the patient stay on
amiodarone.  The patient converted to a normal sinus rhythm
and remained in a normal sinus rhythm with no atrial
fibrillation times two days.  Amiodarone was discontinued, as
it was thought that the patient's atrial fibrillation was
related to her catheterization only.  The patient was
monitored and found to be in a normal sinus rhythm prior to
her discharge.

2.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE ISSUES:  The patient was noted
to be volume overloaded and was diuresed throughout this
admission.  The patient will require further diuresis at her
rehabilitation facility based on a clinical daily
examination.  The patient responded well to 40 mg of
intravenous Lasix corresponding to 80 mg by mouth of Lasix.
The patient was monitored initially with a Swan-Ganz catheter
times two days.  This was removed without complications.  A
beta blocker and ACE inhibitor were restarted without
complications.

3.  ANEMIA ISSUES:  The pa