Admission Date:  [**2123-7-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2123-7-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2078-7-13**]       Sex:  F

Service:  INTERNAL MEDICINE

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 44 year-old
woman who was brought to the Emergency Department by
emergency medical services complaining of shortness of
breath.  The patient states that her shortness of breath has
been constant, lasting all day and unrelieved by frequent use
of MDIs.  The EMTs noted diffuse wheezing, accessory muscle
use, and oxygen saturation in the 50s.  Her oxygen saturation
improved to 80% on 100% face mask.  On arrival to the
Emergency Department the patient noted having shortness of
breath progressing over several days with cough productive of
yellow sputum.  In the Emergency Department she was given
Solu-Medrol and nebulizers.  Arterial blood gases obtained in
the Emergency Department demonstrated respiratory acidosis.
Subsequently the patient was markedly tachypneic, and she was
therefore subsequently intubated.  She was also given 500 mg
of Levofloxacin for empiric treatment of pneumonia.
Suctioning of her airway while in the Emergency Department
demonstrated yellow sputum.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Asthma.  The patient has been
hospitalized twice previously in the Intensive Care Unit for
asthma exacerbations, but she has never previously been
intubated.  2.  Legionella pneumonia in [**2115**].

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  1.  Albuterol inhalers.  2.  Serevent inhalers.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient was not to believed to be
actively smoking on admission to the hospital, but she does
have at least a 20 pack year smoking history.  She had no
known history of alcohol abuse.  She had no known history of
prior recreational drug use, it is of note that the patient's
initial urine tox screen was positive for cocaine.  The
patient lives alone and works in the [**Location (un) 86**] area.  She has a
very supportive family network.  Her sisters were often at
the bedside throughout her hospitalization.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Not known to be contributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Was not initially obtained secondary to
the patient's respiratory distress on presentation to the
Emergency Department.

INITIAL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.2 degrees
Fahrenheit, blood pressure of 146/80.  Heart rate 100s.
Oxygen saturation of 82% on 100% face mask, followed by 97%
on the ventilator with 100% FIO2 and a PEEP of 10.  In
general, the patient was intubated and sedated.  On HEENT
examination her pupils were 2 mm in diameter and reactive.
Her oropharynx was clear, there was no palpable
lymphadenopathy and there was no jugulovenous distention.  On
examination of her lungs rhonchi were heard diffusely, there
were no crackles.  On cardiovascular examination the
patient's heart was a regular rate and rhythm.  There were
normal S1 and S2 heart sounds and there were no murmurs, rubs
or gallops.  Her abdomen was soft, nonrigid and there was no
guarding on examination.  She had no edema of her
extremities. Neurological examination was not assessed
secondary to the patient's sedation.

INITIAL LABORATORY EXAMINATION:  Remarkable for a white blood
cell count of 24.1, hematocrit 47.1, platelet count of 472.
The differential on her white count included 96 neutrophils,
1 band and 3 lymphocytes.  Initial coagulation studies
indicated a PT of 12.4, PTT 25.9, INR of 1.1.  Initial serum
chemistries demonstrated a sodium of 136, potassium 5.1,
chloride 97, bicarbonate 25, BUN 11, creatinine 0.6, serum
glucose of 211.  Initial urinalysis was contaminated.
Initial arterial blood gas on 100% face mask demonstrated a
pH of 7.23, PACO2 of 60 and PAO2 of 53.  After intubation an
initial arterial blood gas demonstrated pH of 7.09, PACO2 of
79 and PAO2 of 136.  The settings were assist control with a
tidal volume of 500, rate of 12 and a PEEP of 5.  A second
arterial blood gas obtained on assist control with a tidal
volume of 500, rate of 20, and PEEP of 10 demonstrated
arterial blood gas with a pH of 7.17, PACO2 of 65 and PAO2 of
85.

Initial chest x-ray demonstrated an endotracheal tube 3 cm
above the carinae.  There was lingular and retrocardiac
opacity.  There was also right perihilar and upper lobe
opacity.  There was no evidence of pneumothorax.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  She was started on round the clock
nebulizer treatments, intravenous steroids, intravenous
antibiotics (Levofloxacin) and she was sedated and paralyzed
given the fact that she was intubated.  Her mechanical
ventilation was adjusted to normalize her acid based status
as well as to optimize her ventilation.

On the second day of admission the patient had a brief
episode of hypotension.  She was briefly placed on a Dopamine
drip, which was quickly weaned off as the patient's blood
pressure increased appropriately.  Also on the second day of
admission the patient was started on Clindamycin for expanded
antimicrobial coverage.  In addition, her urine tox screen
came back positive for cocaine on the second day of
admission.  This positive result raised the possibility of an
aspiration pneumonia leading to an exacerbation of severe
reactive airway disease as the etiology of the patient's
presentation with status asthmaticus to the Emergency
Department.

Several days after admission the patient underwent a
bronchoscopy in the Intensive Care Unit.  This procedure
demonstrated all airways and the endotracheal tube to be
patent.  Scant mucous was aspirated during the procedure.
For the first several days of her hospitalization the patient
required aggressive mechanical ventilatory support to
maintain adequate oxygenation.  She remained heavily sedated
and paralyzed during the initial several days of her
admission in order to minimize the stress of the mechanical
ventilation.  In addition, she was continued on intravenous
steroids throughout the initial period of her
hospitalization.

On the [**11-7**] the patient developed mild anasarcas, she
was administered intravenous Lasix and had an appropriate
diuretic response.  In addition, on the [**11-7**], the
patient was taken off of Clindamycin.  On the [**11-8**] a
chest x-ray demonstrated a new left lower lobe/lingular
infiltrate.  Given the possibility of a new nosocomial
pneumonia the patient was started on Ceftazidime as well as
Vancomycin for treatment of this possible nosocomial
pneumonia.  On [**7-10**], the patient was started on Oxacillin
for treatment of this possible nosocomial pneumonia and the
Vancomycin was discontinued.  Also on the 29th the patient
had a thoracic CT scan for evaluation of the possibility of
pulmonary embolism, no evidence of pulmonary emobolus were
found on this scan.  On the [**7-10**], a neurology consult
was obtained for evaluation of the patient's gross motor
weakness.  This consulting service felt that high dose
steroid myopathy was the possible etiology of the patient's
diffuse weakness.  They did not feel that a critical
polyneuropathy was likely given the patient's preserved
reflexes.  In addition, they felt that a critical illness
myopathy or neuropathy was also unlikely.

For the next several days the patient remained difficult to
wean off of the ventilator.  She continued to require
mechanical ventilation to maintain adequate oxygenation.  On
the [**6-14**], however, the patient was successfully
extubated.  She was then transferred to the General Internal
Medicine Service on [**2123-7-15**].

On transfer to the General Internal Medicine Service, the
patient was in good medical condition.  She no longer had any
symptoms of asthma and her asthma was being well controlled
with appropriate asthma medications.  She was also begun on
an oral Prednisone steroid taper upon transfer to the General
Internal Medicine Service.

The patient remained in stable medical condition while on the
Internal Medicine Service.  The only significant physical
finding while on this service was gross clinical evidence of
a vaginal yeast infection.  Given this gross clinical
evidence the patient was treated em