Admission Date:  [**2118-1-26**]     Discharge Date:  [**2118-1-31**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 78-year-old
Hispanic female with past medical history significant for
diabetes, hypertension and pernicious anemia who complained
of not feeling well for three days.  Patient had an episode
of chest heaviness, which was relieved immediately, and has
been experiencing increasing shortness of breath, dyspnea on
exertion, and had been described by her son as [**Name2 (NI) **] and
diaphoretic.  On the day of admission, the patient had her
usual appointment with her primary care physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] an
electrocardiogram was taken showing ischemic changes.  The
patient was sent to [**Hospital1 **] [**Hospital1 **], where an
electrocardiogram was taken showing [**Street Address(2) 2051**] depressions in
leads V2 through V4, and oxygen saturation was 79% on room
air.  Chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure.  Patient's
hematocrit was 27 and CK was 868 with MB index of 20.1, and
troponin of 48.7.  Patient was given aspirin, Lopressor,
Lasix, intravenous nitroglycerin, after which ST segment
depressions decreased from 1 to 2 mm.  Patient was
transferred to [**Hospital6 256**] for
further care.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Diabetes.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Osteoarthritis.
4.  Depression.
5.  Hypercholesterolemia.
6.  Pernicious anemia.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Avandia, Vitamin B12 injections q.
month, Cozaar dose unknown, multivitamin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies smoking or alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for diabetes, hypertension, no
coronary artery disease.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:  Blood pressure 95/65, heart rate
65, respiratory rate 20, oxygen saturation 100% on
nonrebreather.  General:  Patient is an elderly female
appearing comfortable in no acute distress.  Head and neck
exam:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light, extraocular
movements intact, sclerae are anicteric, oropharynx clear,
jugular venous pressure of 8 cm.  Cardiac exam:  Normal S1,
S2, regular rate and rhythm, no S3 or S4, 2/6 systolic
ejection murmur at right upper sternal border.  Lungs:  Rales
[**3-21**] of the way up bilaterally.  No wheezes or rhonchi.
Abdomen soft, nontender, mildly distended.  Good bowel sounds
in all four quadrants, no masses.  Extremities:  Trace edema,
2+ dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses bilaterally.

LABORATORY EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count
11.7, hematocrit 24.3, platelets 173,000.  PT 14.1, PTT 144,
INR 1.4, sodium 132, potassium 4.5, chloride 96, bicarbonate
22, BUN 33, creatinine 1.4, glucose 209.  CK on admission 868
trending down to 649 with second set, MB 20.1 trending up 22.
Troponin greater than 50.  Calcium 8.7, magnesium 2,
phosphate 4.4.  Electrocardiogram taken at [**Hospital **] [**Hospital3 13049**] showing normal sinus rhythm, normal axis, 3-[**Street Address(2) 5366**]
depressions V4 to V5.  Electrocardiogram at [**Hospital1 **] showing normal sinus rhythm, rate of 64, [**Street Address(2) 4793**]
depressions V2 through V4.  Chest x-ray consistent with
congestive heart failure.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The impression was that
this is a 78-year-old female with a history of diabetes,
hypertension presenting with a non ST elevation myocardial
infarction with electrocardiogram consistent with likely
significant coronary artery disease (left main disease versus
critical three vessel disease).

1.  Cardiovascular:

A.  Ischemia:  The patient was initially adamantly refusing
cardiac catheterization, so she was placed on a heparin
intravenous drip, Plavix, Lopressor, and Cozaar and the goal
was optimal medical management.  However, the patient later
agreed to go for a cardiac catheterization, which was done
two days after admission, which showed 90% stenosis of
proximal left circumflex, which was successfully stented,
distal occlusion of right coronary artery, which was not
intervened on, D1 with 40% stenosis, and left anterior
descending with mild disease.  Hemodynamics during cardiac
catheterization revealed severely elevated left-sided filling
pressures (left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 35 mm).
Left ventriculogram showed akinesis of the inferior wall,
hypokinesis of the apical, anterolateral, and anterobasal
walls with an ejection fraction of 33%, mild mitral
regurgitation.  Patient was started on Integrilin and resumed
on Plavix, Lopressor, and Cozaar after cardiac
catheterization, with doses of Lopressor and Cozaar being
titrated as blood pressure tolerated.  The patient complained
of no further episodes of chest pain afterwards.

B.  Congestive heart failure:  The patient clinically
appeared to be in congestive heart failure on admission, as
she was requiring 100% nonrebreather face mask and had
significant rales on physical examination.  The patient was
given Lasix prn for a goal fluid balance of one liter
negative.  The patient's oxygen requirement had decreased to
room air prior to cardiac catheterization.  However, during a
red blood cell transfusion, which the patient received after
cardiac catheterization for a hematocrit of 24, the patient
developed shortness of breath despite treatment with Lasix
prior to transfusion and developed an increased oxygen
requirement of four liters nasal cannula.  Despite Lasix
diuresis, the patient persistently had an increased oxygen
requirement of two to four liters nasal cannula.  A chest
x-ray was taken revealing persistent congestive heart failure
with cephalization of pulmonary vasculature and a large
left-sided pleural effusion.  Patient was then placed on a
standing Lasix regimen of 20 mg po q.d. on the day of
discharge.  It was decided not to tap the effusion, as it was
felt that with returning cardiac function, post myocardial
infarction and with adequate daily diuresis with standing
Lasix, the patient's congestive heart failure and effusions
would resolve.  The patient never complained of shortness of
breath even with her increased oxygen requirement.

2.  Renal:   With the patient's history of diabetes and with
an elevated creatinine to 1.4 on admission, the patient was
given Mucomyst prior to cardiac catheterization for renal
protection.  With diuresis for congestive heart failure, the
patient's BUN and creatinine were noted to rise from 33/1.4
to 57/1.6, sodium decreased from 132 to 126 (presumably
secondary to diureses as well).  It was decided that diuresis
would have to be continued at the expense of making patient
prerenal in order to treat congestive heart failure.  The
patient was placed on free water restriction for
hyponatremia.

3.  Hematology:  The patient's hematocrit was 24 on
admission.  As her MCV was low, the patient's anemia was
presumably not secondary to her pernicious anemia.  Stool
guaiac was negative, as were hemolysis laboratories.  The
patient was transfused a total of four units of packed red
blood cells during hospital course, and her hematocrit was
33.5 on discharge.

4.  Gastrointestinal:  Patient's stools were guaiac negative
on admission.  The patient was placed on Protonix for
gastrointestinal protection.  Diet was advanced as tolerated
post myocardial infarction.

5.  Endocrine:  The patient was resumed on Avandia for
diabetes.  Patient refused subcutaneous insulin sliding scale
administration.  Fingerstick glucose measurements remained
within normal limits during hospital stay.

6.  Prophylaxis:  Patient was placed on Protonix for
gastrointestinal protection and subcutaneous heparin.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Patient to go to short term
rehabilitation.

FOLLOW-UP:  Patient to follow-up with primary care physician
within two weeks of discharge.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Avandia 4 mg po q.d.
2.  Lopressor 50 mg po b.i.d.
3.  Cozaar 75 mg po q.d.
4.  Multivitamin.
5.  Plavix 75 mg po q.d.
6.  Aspirin 325 mg po q.d.






                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7169**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2692**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2118-2-14**]  10:58
T:  [**2118-2-14**]  10:58
JOB#:  