Admission Date:  [**2129-5-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2129-5-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2107-10-30**]     Sex:  F

Service:  GYNECOLOGY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. [**Known lastname 15942**] is a 21 year-old
G2 P1 who presented to [**Hospital1 69**]
on postpartum day/postoperative day number eight status post
primary low transverse cesarean section on [**2129-5-5**] (failed
IOL, complicated by preeclampsia) with dyspnea since the
evening prior to admission.  She stated that the shortness of
breath began with gradual onset.  She denies any chest pain,
palpitations, hemoptysis, cough, fever, or chills.  She
states that the dyspnea is increased while she is in the
supine position.

OB HISTORY:  G2 P1.  [**2129-5-5**] primary low transverse cesarean
section for failed induction of labor for increased blood
pressures.  The patient developed preeclampsia by increased
blood pressures, edema, headache, protein to creatinine ratio
of 0.7.  Also of note is the fact that experienced an
intraoperative hemorrhage resulting in a hematocrit of 20%
and was not transfused at that time.

GYN HISTORY:
1.  SAB times one.
2.  History of OCP use in the past with no evidence of
thrombosis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  None.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Primary low transverse cesarean
section.

MEDICATIONS:  An antihypertensive of which the patient could
not recall.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  There is a paternal history of cardiac
disease.  No history of clotting disorders or deep venous
thrombosis and no history of acute myocardial infarction.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies tobacco, alcohol or drug
use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs blood
pressure 160/95.  Heart rate 85 to 95.  Respiratory rate 20
to 22.  O2 sat was 89% on room air improving to 96% on face
mask O2.  In general, the patient was in mild distress and
was tachypneic.  Neck no JVD.  Cardiovascular regular rate
and rhythm with 2 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur.
Pulmonary decreased breath sounds at bilateral bases along
with fine rales at bilateral bases.  Abdomen was soft,
nontender, nondistended with the fundus firm 4 cm below the
umbilicus.  Her incision was significant for blanching
erythema surrounding the incision with no fluctuance or no
drainage noted.  Extremities 2+ pitting edema.  Neurological
grossly intact.  Deep tendon reflexes were 2+.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  CBC white blood cell count 11.2,
hematocrit 19.4, platelets 517, fibrinogen 403, ALT 38, uric
acid 5.5.  Chem 7 sodium 140, potassium 4.7, chloride 105,
bicarb 19, BUN 15, creatinine 0.5.  Arterial blood gas
7.45/108/31/22 on 6 liters of O2.  Portable chest x-ray was
performed and was pending at that time.  Electrocardiogram
revealed sinus tachycardia at 98 beats per minute with normal
axis and no strain.

INITIAL IMPRESSION:  The patient is a 21 year-old G2 P0 eight
days postoperative status post primary C section presents
with dyspnea, tachypnea, tachycardia, hypertension, and
peripheral edema.  Also of note the patient has cellulitis
surrounding her incision.  Differential diagnosis at that
time included congestive heart failure, peripartum
cardiomyopathy, or pulmonary embolism.  The decision was made
to proceed with echocardiogram and CT angiogram at that time.
 She was also begun on Kefzol intravenous for cellulitis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiopulmonary:  The patient was
admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for more
comprehensive evaluation and further medical management.
Initially under gyn care the patient improved symptomatically
after initial dose of 10 mg intravenous Lasix.  Chest x-ray
revealed cephalization of the pulmonary vasculature with
bilateral pleural effusions.  Echocardiogram was normal.  CT
angiogram revealed no evidence of pulmonary embolism and
confirmed bilateral pleural effusions.  The patient received
10 mg intravenous Hydralazine times two, 10 mg Labetalol
intravenous times three, 10 mg intravenous of Lasix for a
total of two doses, all for elevated systolic blood pressures
in the 200s.  She was begun on a nitroglycerin drip and
morphine prn.  She also received intravenous Lasix as needed.
The patient's hypoxia was determined to be most likely
secondary to her hypertension and volume overload and
improved significantly with blood pressure control and
diuresis.  On HD 2 she was transferred to gyn service.  The
patient's antihypertensive regimen was
increased during her stay and the patient was discharged on
400 mg of Labetalol b.i.d.  On discharge the patient had
blood pressures in the range of 120s to 160s/90s.

2.  Infectious disease:  Abdominal wound cellulitis was
significantly improved on intravenous Kefzol.  Her T max on
[**2129-5-12**] was 103.  She was afebrile for greater then 48 hours
prior to discharge.  She was also found to have a urinary
tract infection during her stay, which was also treated with
Kefzol.  This was changed over to po Keflex, which the
patient was discharged home on.

3.  Hematology:  The patient's hematocrit on admission was
19.4.  The decision was made on the day of admission to give
the patient 2 units of packed red blood cells with
intravenous Lasix as needed.  The patient's hematocrit
improved significantly initially to 24 and subsequently to 27
at the time of discharge.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 4952**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 10591**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 47472**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 38927**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2129-5-19**]  11:03
T:  [**2129-5-19**]  13:55
JOB#:  [**Job Number 47473**]
