Admission Date: [**2133-8-17**]      Discharge Date: [**2133-8-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2059-5-6**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74 year old man
with metastatic adenocarcinoma of unclear primary, presumably
lung.  This was diagnosed in [**2124**], after biopsy of
supraclavicular lymph node.  He was treated with XRT and
surgery and did quite well subsequently.  Recently, he was
diagnosed with microscopic hematuria.

Urologic evaluation revealed a duplicated right ureter with
filling defect and wall thickening in the duplicated ureter
at the level of the iliac crest with right hydronephrosis.

A right ureteronephrectomy was planned with suspicion for a
transitional cell carcinoma.  On laparoscopy, studding of the
liver with presumed metastases was noted.  The procedure was
aborted after multiple liver biopsies.  The patient was
extubated post surgery but subsequently developed respiratory
distress and wheezing.  Chest x-ray was done and was
suggestive of pulmonary edema.  The patient was hypoxic on
100% oxygen and was reintubated.  He was then sent to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit for 24 hours and then diuresed.
He was able to come off ventilator and was sent to ALCOVE.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient has a past medical history
of adenocarcinoma, metastatic to the right supraclavicular
node, unclear primary, diagnosed in [**2124**]; status post XRT.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, secondary to
emphysema.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection
fraction of 40% in [**2130**].  Hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Zantac; Lipitor; Valsartan;
Hydrochlorothiazide.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission to ALCOVE, temperature
was 99.8; blood pressure 170/72; pulse 88, irregular;
respiratory rate 20; 99% on five liters.  In no apparent
distress.  Alert, oriented, somewhat forgetful of recent
medical events.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rhythm, no murmurs,
no rubs.  Respiratory:  Poor expansion; few lung crackles;
few wheezes.  Abdomen:  Tender from incision, which is non
weeping, non erythematous and central.  Bowel sounds
positive.  No distention, no masses.  Neurologic:  A bit
forgetful, otherwise intact; possible element of denial.
ENT:  Extraocular movements intact.  NC/AT.  Skin:  No skin
rashes, no edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count of 12.2; hematocrit
of 31.5; PLT 309; NA 137; K 4.0; CL 99; C02 26; BUN 21; CR
1.3; glucose 130.  CK triple was 83, 70 and 60, ruled out for
myocardial infarction.  Magnesium 2.0.

Chest x-ray on [**8-17**] revealed significant pulmonary edema;
left retrocardiac opacity.  [**8-18**] revealed substantial
clearing of pulmonary edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.) Cardiovascular:  On telemetry, the
patient was noted to have multiple premature ventricular
contractions.  These were asymptomatic and not treated.  Due
to the sudden episodes of pulmonary edema, we decided to send
him for repeat echo which showed him to have an ejection
fraction of 20%, half of what it was two years ago.  This is
felt to be due to just progressive left ventricular
dysfunction, in the setting of hypertension and most likely
the primary cause for the pulmonary edema.

He was placed on Digoxin 0.125 mg and started on Coumadin as
well as put on Lasix 40 mg twice a day, in order to prevent
further episodes of pulmonary edema.

2.) Respiratory:  The patient was brought to the floor on
five liters of oxygen saturating at about 90%.  He was stable
on that until the night when he decompensated and we needed
to put him on non rebreathing mask, when he desaturated to
the mid 80's on nasal prongs.  They also gave him 20 mg of
Lasix intravenous.  By morning, he was back on oxygen.  Over
the course of the admission, he did not have any further
episodes of pulmonary edema. He was able to be weaned off of
treatment by the last 24 hours of hospitalization and was
saturating between 89 and 92% on room air, ambulating freely.
There was no evidence of any pneumonia or infectious
pulmonary process throughout the course of dissection.

Additionally, the patient had three unwitnessed episodes of
hemoptysis, in which he coughed up small amount of clear
mucus laced with red blood. This was thought to be secondary
to trauma on intubation which bled slightly on the starting
of heparin for anticoagulation.  There is no evidence that
this is a more malignant pathology behind this at this time.

3.)  Neurologic:  Prior to starting anticoagulation, it was
thought prudent to assess for risk of intracranial metastases
which would be an absolute contraindication for any sort of
anticoagulation.  The patient underwent head CT.  He
tolerated the procedure well.  No abnormalities were found on
the study.

4.) Renal:  The patient remained stable throughout the course
of admission.  His creatinine was 1.3 at the upper level of
normal.  He was given Mucomyst and hydration prior to CT of
the head with contrast to lessen the chances of any
nephrotoxicity. He tolerated the procedure without
complications.

5.) Gastrointestinal:  The system was inactive during the
time of admission.  Diet as tolerated.

DISPOSITION:  The patient was discharged home in stable
condition to the care of his family. He will be followed up
by his primary care physician and by his oncologist, Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] in the near future for possible treatment and
evaluation of his cancer and other health problems.

MEDICATIONS:  Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day.  Toprol XL 100 mg
p.o. q. day.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. twice a day.  Digoxin 0.125 mg
p.o. q. day.  Diovan 160 mg p.o. q. day.  Zantac 150 mg p.o.
twice a day.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Pulmonary edema.
Congestive heart failure.
Metastatic carcinoma.
Hypertension.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.






                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1197**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 6627**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2133-8-21**]  17:28
T:  [**2133-8-27**]  20:01
JOB#:  [**Job Number 6628**]
