Admission Date: [**2114-4-17**]        Discharge Date: [**2114-4-26**]

Date of Birth:  [**2059-12-24**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient was admitted with the chief
complaint of shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 50 year old
female with a history of breast cancer treated with surgery,
high dose chemotherapy (including Adriamycin), auto bone
marrow transplant and radiation, who has had other admissions
since her treatment. The patient had been doing well up until
approximately three weeks ago.  The patient developed a
nonproductive cough, denied any fevers, chills, pleuritic
chest pain and began to have episodes of shortness of breath.
The patient now reports being short of breath at
approximately angle of 20 degrees and could not lie flat at
night.  No chest pain, no diaphoresis, occasional hot
flashes, no nausea or vomiting.  The patient states that she
has had weight loss over the past few weeks secondary to poor
appetite, but denies any night sweats, and no hemoptysis.
The patient states she has had occasional palpitations.  The
patient also reports polyuria and polydipsia which she states
has been long-standing.  The patient denies any history of
tuberculosis or contacts with tuberculosis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Inflammatory breast cancer diagnosed in [**2105**], with
   positive lymph nodes.  At that time, she underwent
   surgery, high dose chemotherapy and auto bone marrow
   transplant and radiation.
2. Depression.
3. Obesity.
4. She has no known history of hypercholesterolemia or
   hypertension.


ALLERGIES:  She is allergic to Penicillin which causes hives.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Femara 2.5 mg p.o. once daily.
2. Effexor 75 mg p.o. once daily.
3. Zoloft 100 mg p.o. once daily.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her roommate.  She quit
tobacco twenty years ago.  She denies any ethanol or illicit
drug use.  She is the owner of a restaurant.

FAMILY HISTORY:  She had an uncle with a myocardial
infarction at age 52.  She had a grandmother with breast
cancer who developed that in her 80s.  She has an aunt with
ovarian cancer.  Her mother is alive and well at age 88.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, physical examination was
remarkable for temperature of 96.9, blood pressure 92/76,
pulse 89, respiratory rate 25, oxygen saturation 99 percent.
She was a pleasant middle age woman in no acute distress but
anxious, short of breath lying down.  Pertinent examination
findings revealed normal S1 and S2.  She had decreased breath
sounds at the right base.  Her abdominal examination was
soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremity examination showed
no edema, 2 plus dorsalis pedis bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her laboratory data was remarkable for a
white blood cell count of 8.7 with a normal differential,
hematocrit 43.7, platelet count 187,000.  Chem7 was
remarkable for a blood glucose of 747 with an anion gap of
14.  Her INR was 1.3.  She had a D-dimer of 3258.

CT angiogram was obtained as there was concern for pulmonary
embolus.  It showed no pulmonary embolus and moderate right
sided pleural effusion, a small left effusion and no
pathologically enlarged lymph nodes, no infiltrate, no
atelectasis or collapse.

An electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 114 beats
per minute with late R wave progression, questionable lead
placement.  There is also a Q wave in V1 through V3 and T
wave inversions in those leads.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Initially, the main concern of the
admitting team was for her new onset likely type 2 diabetes
mellitus. She had a urinalysis sent which did not reveal
evidence of ketonuria.  It was therefore felt that this was a
likely new onset type diabetes mellitus.  The other main
concern of the team was the new right sided pleural effusion
which would obviously be concern for recurrence of her
cancer.  The patient was initially admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for treatment of her hyperosmolar state
and her hypoglycemia.  In the Intensive Care Unit, her
glucose normalized with an insulin drip and then with sliding
scale insulin and NPH.  The right sided pleural effusion was
also tapped and yielded 300cc of fluid, however, this fluid
specimen was subsequently lost and therefore no laboratory
evaluation was done on the specimen.  Most remarkable during
this course, an echocardiogram was obtained and this showed
an ejection fraction of 15-20 percent along with 4 plus
tricuspid regurgitation and mitral regurgitation, a small to
moderate loculated pericardial effusion.  One dose of Lasix
was given in the Intensive Care Unit with 500cc of urine
output and the patient reported slight improvement in
dyspnea.  This result was surprising as the patient has no
known history of any cardiac disease and has never reported
any significant chest pain.  The congestive heart failure
service was consulted and recommended a subsequent cardiac
catheterization.  The reasoning behind this was that, while
she does have new onset type 2 diabetes mellitus, there was
concern given the Q waves on her electrocardiogram of a
possible silent anterior myocardial infarction that had
caused her decompensation.  Therefore, she was transferred
back to the [**Hospital Ward Name 517**] for cardiac catheterization and this
led to her subsequent admission in the Medical Intensive Care
Unit.

The cardiac catheterization revealed clean coronary arteries
but increased left and right sided pressures.  Her wedge was
noted to be 25.  She had a pulmonary artery pressure of 45/25
and right ventricular pressure of 45/18 and an extremely
elevated right atrial pressure of 22/19.  The patient also
had a decreased cardiac output and cardiac index.  Her
cardiac output was 3.4 and her cardiac index was 1.8.  She
was therefore transferred to the Coronary Care Unit for
tailored inotropic and diuretic therapy.  Also of note, once
she was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit, she
had an ALT of 193 and AST of 95 and alkaline phosphatase of
158.  Also of note, she had sets of cardiac enzymes which
were negative and an AlC which was drawn and was 13.8.

The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course in the Coronary Care Unit:
Ischemia - The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction
   and had clean coronary arteries and she was
   continued on Aspirin 81 mg p.o. once daily.

Pump - The patient was initially started on Milrinone with
   reasoning to increase her forward flow and cardiac index
   to help with diuresis.  She was also given Lasix p.r.n.
   with goal to make her negative 1.5 to two liters a day.
   With regards to the etiology of her congestive heart
   failure, several laboratory studies were checked which
   included a TSH which was normal, and also iron studies
   were obtained to rule out hemochromatosis and this was
   normal as well.  An HIV test was also checked, and this
   was normal.  It was therefore felt by the Coronary Care
   Unit team that the most likely etiology of her
   cardiomyopathy was due to Adriamycin toxicity.  It was
   thought that it was possible that the patient had been in
   long-standing congestive heart failure and had been
   compensated and the recent new onset of type 2 diabetes
   mellitus may have produced the exacerbation.  She was
   eventually weaned off the Milrinone drip and her
   congestive heart failure medications were titrated.  She
   was eventually discharged on a course of Digoxin 0.125 mg
   p.o. once daily, Aldactone 25 mg p.o. once daily, low dose
   Lisinopril (2.5 mg p.o. once daily), and Coreg 3.125 mg
   p.o. twice a day.  She will be followed as an outpatient
   in the Congestive heart Failure Clinic.

With regard to rhythm, the patient remained in normal
   sinus rhythm.

Prevention  - The patient was continued on an Aspirin.

Diabetes mellitus - The patient had been followed by the
   [**Last Name (un) **] team during her hospital stay.  She had her insulin
   and Humalog sliding scale regimens titrated and she will
   follow-up with [**Last Name (un) **] approximately one week after
   discharge.

Increased liver function tests -  Hepatitis panel was
   checked and was negative.  Right upper quadrant ultrasound
   wa