Admission Date:  [**2102-1-4**]     Discharge Date:  [**2102-1-10**]


Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 79 year old with
multiple medical problems including AFib on Coumadin status
post AICD, CRI, type 2 diabetes mellitus, CHF, who presents
from outside hospital following discovery of subarachnoid
hemorrhage after a fall.  Yesterday the patient had a
mechanical fall at home, specifics unclear.  EMS was called,
but the patient refused to go to the hospital.  There was
loss of consciousness for unclear duration and head trauma.

In the morning the patient did not feel well and went to
[**Hospital **] [**Hospital 1459**] Hospital.  A head CT showed three separate
areas of hemorrhage in the midline above ventricle, two above
the falx, and surrounding edema left greater than right mass
effect, no shift or fluid collections.  Chest x-ray at
outside hospital also showed a patchy right upper lobe
infiltrate and elevated right diaphragm with mild vascular
congestion.

Patient denied cough, shortness of breath, fevers, chills,
sweats, chest pain, abdominal pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. AFib on Coumadin status post ICD.
2. CRI.
3. Type 2 diabetes.
4. CHF.
5. Hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Lisinopril.
2. Digoxin.
3. Allopurinol.
4. Lasix.
5. Sotalol.
6. Detrol.
7. Paxil.
8. Coumadin.
9. Kayexalate.
10. Colchicine.
11. Glyburide.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  Temperature 96.7, pulse 79, blood pressure
113/96, respirations 16, and O2 saturation 93% on room air,
and 97% on 3 liters.  In general, in neck brace.  Oriented to
person, not place or year.  Neurologic:  Pupils 4 mm to 2 mm
reactive to light and accommodation.  EOMI.  Face with right
droop at rest, symmetric with smile.  Tongue symmetric.
Sensation intact.  Normal palatal elevation.  No pronator
drift, but difficult to assess.  Hand grips [**3-22**] and
symmetric.  Able to wiggle toes.  Bilateral Babinski.  Neck:
Unable to assess JVP in collar.  Lungs clear anteriorly and
laterally.  Cardiovascular:  Irregularly, irregular, 3/6
systolic ejection murmur at the left sternal border and left
upper sternal border.  Abdomen:  Bowel sounds present, mild
right upper quadrant tenderness.  Liver edge palpable 3 cm
below costal margin with no guarding or rebound.

LABORATORIES:  Were significant for a white count of 7.3 with
76 polys, hematocrit of 44.5, and platelets of 116,
creatinine is 2.1, INR of 2.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  After admission, patient underwent q1h
neuro checks.  Initially was started on Levaquin for right
upper lobe pneumonia that was seen at the outside hospital,
but this was stopped after there was no infiltrates seen.
Patient was given FFP and vitamin K.  A right upper quadrant
ultrasound which was evaluated secondary to
hyperbilirubinemia and thrombocytopenia was normal.  However,
there was a 7 cm AAA.  Neurosurgery was consulted, and took
patient to angiogram to rule out a sinus thrombosis.  This
was not seen, but patient developed acute renal failure post
angiogram.  Patient also spiked a temperature while in the
ICU with gram-positive cocci in clusters in the sputum.

The patient also continued with the C spine as Neurosurgery
did not clear it secondary to ossified fracture of
longitudinal ligament at C2, C3 with grade I anterolisthesis.
Patient continued to do poorly, and there was no plan to take
the patient to the operating room.  He was planning to be
called out to the floor, but instead of transferred from the
West MICU to the East MICU.

When he arrived to the East MICU, patient was noted to have
paradoxical breathing with bloody sputum production, and was
mostly unresponsive.  An ABG was done, which demonstrated
7.43, 44, 117.  Family was notified that the patient was
doing poorly.

At 2 a.m. on [**2102-1-10**], the patient acutely became tachypneic
and tachycardic, and then hypotensive.  He was suctioned for
a very large amount of secretions.  It was thought he may
have aspirated.  IV fluid bolus was given without effect, and
the patient quickly became pulseless, and then apneic with
only occasional agonal breathing.  This quickly decreased to
a respiratory rate of 0.  Patient had an AICD and pacer, and
this continued to discharge even after patient became
pulseless.  A magnet was obtained so that the AICD would not
fire.

Patient on exam was without pulse.  On auscultation, no heart
or lung sounds were heard for two minutes.  Pupils were fixed
and dilated.  Time of death was 2:20 a.m. on [**2102-1-10**].  Family and attending were notified.



                DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) **] 12-ACV

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 8141**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2102-3-21**]  14:53
T:  [**2102-3-23**]  08:09
JOB#:  [**Job Number 53333**]
