Admission Date:  [**2115-9-28**]     Discharge Date:  [**2115-10-20**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is an 83-year-old male
with past medical history significant for CAD status post
CABG, Class IV CHF with an EF of 35%, AFib status post ICD
pacer and chronic renal insufficiency, transferred to [**Hospital1 18**]
from nursing home facility due to increased respiratory rate
and lethargy on day of admission.  Patient had a recent
hospital admission for pneumonia, and had just completed a
seven day course of Augmentin, which was finished on the day
of this current admission.  Patient had been noticed to be
increasingly lethargic with decreased p.o. intake by the
nursing home staff.  He also notes diffuse achiness and
feeling chilly.  Patient is a poor historian.

Upon arrival to [**Hospital1 18**], his blood pressure was 167/68, heart
rate of 60, respiratory rate of 30, and satting 86% on 5
liters.  He was placed on 100% nonrebreather with his sats
improving to the 90s.  He received 80 mg of IV Lasix, and his
oxygen requirement then decreased to 4 liters.  He also
received a dose of Levaquin and was started on a
nitroglycerin drip.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Coronary artery disease status post CABG x3 in [**2096**] with
redo in [**2108**].  P-MIBI in [**2115-4-16**] showing moderate
reversible inferior defect, status post dual lead pacer and
defibrillator placed in [**2114-8-16**], bilateral pleural
effusions.
2. Class IV CHF with EF of 35%.
3. AFib.
4. Chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine of
2.2.
5. Hyperlipidemia.
6. Hypertension.
7. Monoclonal gammopathy.
8. Prostate cancer status post prostatectomy.
9. Tophaceous gout.
10. Cervical spondylosis.
11. Status post appendectomy.
12. GAVE syndrome.
13. Status post knee surgery.
14. Status post spinal cyst removal.
15. History of lower gastrointestinal bleed.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Protonix.
2. Digoxin.
3. Colace.
4. Isosorbide mononitrate.
5. Epogen.
6. Hydralazine.
7. Toprol XL.
8. Bumetanide.
9. Timoptic eyedrops.
10. Senna.
11. Allopurinol.
12. Remeron.
13. Multivitamin.

ALLERGIES:  Morphine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Currently residing at [**Hospital 33092**] Rehab.
Lives alone.  Daughter in [**Name2 (NI) 4565**].  Quit tobacco 40 years
ago.  No current alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White count 11.2, hematocrit
34.7.  Sodium 154, potassium 4.9, chloride 116, bicarb 24,
BUN 106, creatinine 2.6.  Urinalysis:  100 protein, 21-50
RBC, and few bacteria.

Chest x-ray:  Cardiomegaly, bilateral basilar dense opacities
with air bronchograms in the right middle lobe and right
lower lobe consistent with pneumonia with superimposed
pulmonary edema.

EKG:  Paced rhythm, left bundle branch block.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular:  Pump:  Patient with Class IV CHF admitted
with acute CHF exacerbation.  At initial presentation in the
ED, patient in acute respiratory distress, received Lasix
with good diuresis, and subsequent improved respiratory
status.

He initially went to the floor, where he was weaned down to 4
liters nasal cannula of oxygen.  However, the day following
admission, patient developed worsening respiratory distress
and was markedly tachypneic with decreased urine output and
abdominal pain.  He was then transferred to the MICU for
closer monitoring.

Upon arrival in the MICU, there was concern that patient
might be intervascularly dry given his hypernatremia, acute
renal failure, and free water deficit, and low CVPs.  He
received several free water and normal saline boluses.
Although his chest x-ray did show bilateral pleural
effusions, these were thought to be chronic.

However, on [**10-4**], the patient continued to have
significant respiratory distress and difficulty weaning off
the ventilator.  A CAT scan was obtained, which showed
bilateral layering effusions, pulmonary edema, and patient
was thought to be in CHF.  At this point, he was then
diuresed with Zaroxolyn and Bumex for several days without
response.  Cardiology was then consulted for evaluation of
his CHF at which point he was started on a Natrecor drip.
Initially, Bumex and Zaroxolyn were D/C'd.  Patient had
minimal diuresis.

Review of the record showed patient has had multiple episodes
of CHF refractory to diuresis.  Bumex and Zaroxolyn were
added back.  In addition, patient was started on a Lasix
drip.  He did have an adequate diuretic response on this
regimen.  He also required the addition of dobutamine given
his poor cardiac function.  A Swan was placed to monitor
patient's hemodynamics throughout this.  Multiple attempts
were made to wean him off of his drips, which were
unsuccessful.  After several days, his Lasix drip was
stopped, and he was maintained on Natrecor and dobutamine.

However, patient had significant ectopy with dobutamine, so
this was slowly weaned down.  The CHF service was also
consulted, but no further progress was able to be made in the
management of patient's CHF.

Rhythm:  Patient with biventricular pacer and defibrillator.
He was V paced throughout the hospitalization.  He was seen
by EP and his pacer rate was increased to 95 in order to
optimize his cardiac function given his severe CHF.  He had
marked ectopy on dobutamine drip, which had been added as per
his CHF.

Coronary:  Patient had no active ischemia during the
hospitalization.

2. ID:  Patient admitted having just completed treatment for
a pneumonia.  He was started on Levaquin and Cipro on
admission to cover for community acquired and aspiration
pneumonia.  When he was transferred to the MICU, his
antibiotic coverage was brought in to ceftaz, Flagyl, and
Vancomycin to cover for pneumonia.  He was treated for seven
days.

Given his continued respiratory issues, patient was bronched
with BAL cultures obtained.  These grew out only sparse MRSA
which was thought to be colonization.  Patient remained off
antibiotics for many days.  He then subsequently developed a
Pseudomonas UTI for which he was started on cefepime.

3. Pulmonary:  Patient admitted with mild respiratory
distress thought to be CHF exacerbation and pneumonia.
Following diuresis, his respiratory status initially
improved, but then upon day of transfer to the MICU, he was
markedly tachypneic with abdominal pain and decreased urine
output.  In this setting, he was electively intubated to
allow for better workup of his other issues.

Following this, multiple attempts to wean him off the
ventilator were unsuccessful.  He was then started on an
aggressive diuresis regimen.  He was finally extubated on
[**10-10**].  He had been intubated for a total of 12
days.  He did well for several days following extubation, but
in the setting of his worsening CHF, developed progressive
respiratory distress.

Following lengthy discussions with the patient and the
family, decided that patient would not be reintubated.  He
was briefly placed on BiPAP, which he did not tolerate well
and which had minimal effect on his respiratory distress.

4. Heme:  Several days into admission, the patient developed
left lower upper edema.  An ultrasound showed a new left
subclavian vein thrombus in addition to an old right IJ clot.
Patient was then started on Heparin.  Given patient's history
of GAVE syndrome, GI was consulted prior to initiation of
Heparin.  There was also concern given a recent EGD, which
showed gastritis and a few AVMs.

Following lengthy discussion with the GI team, it was decided
that the patient would benefit from Heparin.  Serial
hematocrits were followed on this regimen.  Patient with
baseline anemia due to chronic renal insufficiency, he was
maintained on Epogen and iron per his outpatient regimen.

5. Renal:  Patient with chronic renal insufficiency and
baseline creatinine of approximately 2.2.  His creatinine
remained essentially stable.  His medications were renally
dosed.  Patient did have symptoms with urinary obstruction.
The day following admission, he developed acute abdominal
pain.  A CAT scan of the abdomen showed a distended bladder.

Following catheterization, his abdominal pain resolved.
Patient had multiple issues with Foley catheter placement
thought 