Admission Date:  [**2104-12-14**]     Discharge Date:  [**2104-12-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2031-8-25**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 73-year-old female
with a history of CAD status post CABG and multiple stents
presenting following a witnessed cardiac arrest at home.  The
patient was in the bathroom combing her hair when she called
out to her husband.  The husband ran into the bathroom and
found the patient slowly sliding against the wall down to the
ground.  She was then pulseless and apneic.  The husband
initiated CPR.  Seven to 10 minutes later, the police
arrived.  The patient was shocked with an ACD 5x.
Approximately 10 minutes after the initial arrest, EMS
arrived.  The patient was found to be pulseless electrical
activity and apneic.  The patient was intubated, given
Epinephrine, atropine, and lidocaine.  The pulse returned
approximately 12-15 minutes after the initiation of the
arrest.

The patient was taken to the outside hospital and was
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**].  In the
Emergency Department, the patient was hypothermic to 93.8.
She was nonresponsive and intubated without any need for
sedation.  Patient was also on Neo-Synephrine for blood
pressure support and was on a lidocaine drip ever since the
arrest.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Coronary artery disease status post CABG and stent.
2. Status post carotid endarterectomy.
3. Diabetes mellitus type 2.
4. Status post hysterectomy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Patient was on a long list of
medications at home, which were not available at time of
presentation to the ED.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION TO THE ED:  Patient was
hypothermic to a temperature of 93.8.  Patient was intubated
and not on any sedation.  She was nonresponsive to verbal or
painful stimuli.  The patient withdrew from pain in the upper
extremities bilaterally, but not in the lower extremities.
Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light, but there was
no corneal reflex and no doll's eyes.  Face appeared
symmetric.  There was a very weak gag reflex.  Heart was
regular, rate, and rhythm with a [**2-21**] holosystolic murmur best
heard at the apex.  Lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  There was no lower extremity edema.  Systolic
blood pressure was stable in the 100s while on Neo-Synephrine
drip.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  Chemistries were within normal
limits.  Hematocrit was stable.

Head CT showed no evidence for acute infarct or intracranial
bleed or mass effect.

Chest CTA showed no evidence for pneumothorax or pulmonary
embolism.

EKG showed sinus rhythm with ST depression in the anterior
leads, but no Q waves or ST elevations.

Echocardiogram performed in the Emergency Department showed a
very poor ejection fraction of 20-25% with significant mitral
regurgitation.

A CT of the neck was performed, which ruled out cervical
fracture or compromise of the cord.

Chest x-ray showed an endotracheal tube in the correct
position as well as a nasogastric tube mid esophagus.  No
pulmonary infiltrates were identified.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient following stabilization in the
Emergency Department, was admitted to CCU for further
management.  Due to the patient's extensive coronary artery
disease and ischemic cardiomyopathy, it was believed that the
cause of the cardiac arrest was most likely to be ventricular
tachycardia, which then worsened into ventricular
fibrillation.

On admission, there were no electrolytes to suggest an
electrolyte abnormality as the cause of her ventricular
fibrillation.  There was no pericardial effusion on
echocardiogram to suggest tamponade.  Chest CTA showed no
evidence of pulmonary embolism.  EKG was not consistent with
an acute massive ST segment elevation MI.  On admission,
there was an elevated white blood cell count to 23.3 as well
as hypothermia.  There was no evidence of infection prior to
arrest according to the family that would suggest sepsis as a
cause for her ventricular fibrillation.  Blood and urine
cultures were sent in the Emergency Department which are
still pending at the time of this dictation.

The patient was continued on a lidocaine drip to prevent
degeneration back into ventricular fibrillation.  She also
required Neo-Synephrine for blood pressure support.
Neurologic examination showed no evidence of higher cortical
functioning as well as some loss of brain stem function.  In
the Emergency Department, the patient developed rhythmic
whole body jerks occurring approximately every 2-4 minutes.
A Neurology consult was obtained.  They felt that the jerks
represented either postanoxic myoclonus or status
epilepticus.  The patient was started on Ativan as well as a
Dilantin load.  The patient stopped moving, but never became
responsive.

Serial neurologic examinations showed no improvement in brain
stem function.  An EEG was performed which showed the patient
to be in status epilepticus.  She was again loaded on
Dilantin and continued on Ativan, but the medications were
unable to break her out of status.  The patient was continued
on assist control mechanical ventilation throughout her stay
in the CCU.  General Surgery consult was obtained in order to
place a brachial arterial line.  ABG showed a pH of 7, pCO2
of 21, pO2 of 262, and a bicarbonate of 6, most consistent
with metabolic acidosis.  Her lactate level was 7.0.
Considering the patient's extremely poor prognosis due to
worsening metabolic acidosis as well as poor neurologic
function and continued status epilepticus, a family
discussion was held.

The family was made aware of the patient's poor prognosis for
functional recovery.  The family ultimately decided to
withdraw blood pressure support.  Two hours later the patient
became asystolic.  She died at approximately 9:50 p.m.  The
family was at the bedside.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Cardiac arrest (ventricular
fibrillation).



                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 4993**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2104-12-17**]  15:53
T:  [**2104-12-18**]  06:23
JOB#:  [**Job Number 54133**]
