Admission Date:  [**2201-7-18**]     Discharge Date:  [**2201-8-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2127-12-13**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

NOTE:  This is a Death Summary.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 73-year-old Asian
female with a complicated past medical history significant
for diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and coronary
artery disease (status post 4-vessel coronary artery bypass
graft on [**2201-5-4**] which was complicated by postoperative
atrial fibrillation).  She was started on amiodarone and
converted back to sinus rhythm in one day.  She was continued
on amiodarone and beta blocker and was sent to cardiac
rehabilitation.

She returned on [**2201-5-23**] with chest pain thought to be
associated with pericardiotomy syndrome.  She was found to
have a moderate-sized left pleural effusion which was tapped
for about 500 cc, but this was not sent for any laboratory
studies.

She returned on [**2201-7-18**] with rapid worsening of dyspnea
over the last two days.  She was brought by Emergency Medical
Service who had intubated her in the field.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease; status post 4-vessel coronary
artery bypass graft on [**2201-5-4**] (left anterior
descending artery to left internal mammary artery, saphenous
vein graft to first diagonal, saphenous vein graft to
posterior descending artery).
2.  Diabetes (hemoglobin A1c of 8.2 in [**2201-4-27**]).
3.  Hyperlipidemia.
4.  Hypertension.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco and no alcohol use.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Outpatient medications included
amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d., Zestril 20 mg p.o. q.d.,
oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.4-6h. as needed, Lopressor 25 mg p.o.
b.i.d., Lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d., Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Protonix 40 mg p.o.
q.d., Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d., Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d.,
insulin 70/30 30 units q.a.m. and 16 units q.p.m.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission to the Coronary Care Unit revealed a temperature
of 105, blood pressure was 117/61, heart rate was 91,
respiratory rate was 20, oxygen saturation was 97% on FIO2 of
100%.  In general, physical examination revealed the patient
was intubated and sedated.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination showed normocephalic and atraumatic, Asian
female.  Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.
They were not icteric.  Cardiovascular examination revealed
she had a regular rate.  She had a normal first heart sound
and second heart sound.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops were
heard.  Pulmonary examination revealed she was clear to
auscultation bilaterally anteriorly.  Abdominal examination
showed a soft, nontender, and nondistended abdomen with
normal active bowel sounds.  Her extremities were cool to
touch.  She had no noticeable edema, but her dorsalis pedis
pulses could not be appreciated.  On neurologic examination,
she was sedated.  She had an indeterminate Babinski, but she
was moving all four extremities.  Her ventilator settings on
admission were synchronized intermittent mandatory
ventilation 500, respiratory rate was 20, positive
end-expiratory pressure was 8, FIO2 of 200%.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratory
values revealed a white blood cell count of 11.7, hematocrit
was 46.4, platelets were 231.  PT was 16.5, PTT was 30, INR
was 1.2.  Sodium was 143, potassium was 3.6, chloride
was 107, bicarbonate was 20, blood urea nitrogen was 27,
creatinine was 1.4, blood glucose was 88.  Cardiac enzymes
showed a peak creatine kinase of 1787 on [**8-18**], with a
CK/MB of 11, and an index of 0.6.  Troponin was 1.5.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Initial electrocardiogram showed sinus
rhythm with a rate of 77, a normal axis, and a left
bundle-branch morphology.

A follow-up electrocardiogram on the same day showed a new
arteriovenous junctional rhythm with antegrade P wave
conduction.

Initial chest x-ray showed bilateral patchy basilar opacities
which could be consistent with aspiration pneumonia, as well
as a fine interstitial pattern, and engorgement of the
pulmonary vasculature; consistent with pulmonary edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  Upon admission, the patient had
signs of cardiogenic shock and status post coronary artery
bypass graft two months earlier.  Therefore, she was taken
straight to the catheterization laboratory.  Her hemodynamics
indicated elevated filling pressures with a cardiac index
of 1.09.

On coronary angiography, coronary angiography showed an 80%
left main stenosis, an occluded left anterior descending
artery, a left circumflex with a 70% proximal stenosis and
80% distal disease, and an occluded right coronary artery.
The saphenous vein graft to posterior descending artery had
50% middle and 80% stenosis at the touchdown site.  The
saphenous vein graft to first diagonal had a 90% middle
stenosis which was stented with 0% residual stenosis with
normal flow afterwards.  The saphenous vein graft to second
diagonal showed a 90% stenosis which was also stented and had
0% residual stenosis.  The left internal mammary artery to
left anterior descending artery had an 80% distal stenosis.

Her hemodynamics initially improved with angioplasty, and she
was started on aspirin, Plavix, and Integrilin which was
continued for 24 hours.

Cardiac enzymes were cycled, and although creatine kinases
were elevated, the CK/MB fraction never bumped, and the
troponin remained flat at 1.5.  Therefore, given the evidence
of restenosis on catheterization, it was unknown whether an
ischemic event precipitated the patient's presentation.

2.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE:  The patient was started on
dopamine and dobutamine while in the catheterization
laboratory due to a cardiac index of 1.1.  An echocardiogram
done after her initial coronary artery bypass graft on
[**2201-5-21**] showed an ejection fraction of 55%.  A repeat
echocardiogram which was done on [**5-22**] (on hospital day
two) showed an ejection fraction of 35% with inferior wall
akinesis and biventricular hypokinesis.

The patient's initial presentation was consistent with
pulmonary edema secondary to congestive heart failure, and
likewise she was continued on pressors for the majority of
her hospital course.  Pressors were weaned on a number of
occasions, at which time captopril and metoprolol were used
for blood pressure control.  The patient was initially
diuresed approximately 9 liters of fluid; at which time she
was judged to be at her dry weight and the Swan-Ganz catheter
was removed.

Due to a fluctuating systemic vascular resistances and
cardiac output/cardiac index, it was unsure whether an
entirely cardiogenic versus septic (or both) etiology was
responsible for the patient's hypotension.  Therefore, a
Swan-Ganz catheter was refloated on [**2201-7-29**] for better
hemodynamic monitoring.  The patient was diuresed an
additional 2 liters to 3 liters at that time.  Although
pressors had been weaned radically throughout the hospital
course; staring on [**8-2**], the patient's blood pressure
became dopamine dependent, and dopamine was unable to be
weaned until the patient expired on [**2201-8-5**].

3.  ARRHYTHMIA:  Upon admission to the hospital, the patient
had a junctional rhythm with arteriovenous dissociation and
significant sinus bradycardia.

While in the catheterization laboratory, a temporary
pacemaker was placed.  It was assumed that the junctional
rhythm was associated with the beta blocker and amiodarone
used, which were both stopped.  The patient had an occasional
episode of ectopy which was thought to be associated with
reperfusion, and the temporary pacemaker was pulled on
hospital day four without any additional arrhythmias noted.

4.  PULMONARY:  The patient was admitted with a 2-day history
of increasing dyspnea on exertion which eventually led to
dyspnea while at rest.  The patient was intubated in the
field by Emergency Medical Service and was initially diuresed
9 liters for an episode of acute pulmonary edema.

An initial chest x-ray showed signs of left lower lobe
consolidation, and given the field intubation the patient was
started