Admission Date:                   Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2071-5-6**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine/[**Doctor Last Name **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Patient is a 67-year-old male with a
history of systolic dysfunction and PUD, presenting to the
Emergency Room with left lower extremity bilateral edema
times 8-10 days.  The patient is a very poor historian and
noted that he had something like this years ago for which he
was hospitalized.  The patient also states that he has
increased dyspnea on exertion and he gets short of breath
after ?????? block.  The patient states he wakes paroxysmally in
the middle of the night with shortness of breath.  Stable two
pillow orthopnea.  Denies chest pain, palpitations,
lightheadedness, nausea, vomiting or diaphoresis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient presented to the
Emergency Room and was noted to be tachypneic in the 30's,
tachycardic in the 100's.  O2 saturation was 85% on room air,
few crackles on lung exam were noted.  Chest x-ray was
negative for edema.  EKG showed extreme right axis deviation.
The patient was admitted to medicine for treatment and for
evaluation of predominantly right sided heart failure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for CHF.  Echocardiogram
done in [**2132**] showed moderate global left ventricular
hypertrophy and thinning of septum.  EF 30-35%, mild MR, mild
AR, moderate TR, mild pulmonary hypertension.  PASV of 35
mmHg.  History of alcohol abuse, quit 4-5 years ago, history
of PUD, etiology Aspirin and ethanol use.  H. Pylori negative
and Killian-[**Last Name (un) 10712**] cervical ring; patient is asymptomatic.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a retired maintenance worker,
lives alone, positive for tobacco one pack per week, formerly
two packs per day.  Positive for alcohol, states none for the
last 4-5 years.  No history of withdrawal.  Patient has a
remote history of marijuana and Cocaine use, no IV drug
abuse.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother alive and well at 84, father passed
away at 72 of unknown causes.  Siblings all reportedly
healthy with one brother who died of pneumonia in his 60's
and a sister who died at childbirth.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Initial exam, patient is a 67-year-old
black male, tachypneic, in no apparent distress, alert and
oriented times three, temperature 97.3, pulse 99, blood
pressure 102/87, respirations 34, 97% on 2 liters nasal
cannula oxygen.  Skin is warm, dry, anicteric.  HEENT:
Normocephalic, atraumatic, pupils are equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation, extraocular movements
intact, OP clear.  Neck supple, positive for JVD.  Lungs, few
crackles, right greater than left, no wheezes.
Cardiovascular exam, S1 and S2, tachycardic, 2/4 systolic
ejection murmur at right upper sternal border.




                            [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4263**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 8102**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2139-4-3**]  16:47
T:  [**2139-4-3**]  19:43
JOB#:  [**Job Number 10713**]
