Admission Date:  [**2104-8-19**]       Discharge Date:


Service:  Medicine

CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Cough and fever.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84 year old
female who presented initially in [**2104-2-29**] with
acute/chronic cough and fever.  The patient was treated over
several months with antibiotics, for three separate courses,
without relief.  Eventually, a repeat chest x-ray showed a
right lower lobe infiltrate and the patient was sent to the
Emergency Room to be treated for pneumonia.

In the Emergency Room, a CT scan of the chest was obtained
and showed dense consolidation in the right lower lobe and
right middle lobe with a large loculated right pleural
effusion.  The patient was admitted and started on broad
spectrum antibiotics, and her pleural effusion was tapped.
The pleural fluid obtained was consistent with an empyema,
however, the patient underwent bronchoscopy prior to VATS to
rule out malignancy.  During the bronchoscopy, a blood vessel
was nicked.  During the biopsy, the patient bled acutely,
decompensated and had to be intubated.

After intubation, the patient had a tonic-clonic seizure.
Subsequently, she underwent a neurological workup.  The
seizure was thought to be hypoxic versus toxic metabolic.
The patient was loaded on Dilantin and, over the next several
days, her neurological status was noticed to be slowly
improving.  She required multiple packed red blood cell
transfusions.

The patient eventually underwent a VATS with decortication in
the Operating Room.  Over the next several days, the patient
was difficult to wean from the ventilator.  She subsequently
developed a left pleural effusion which was tapped for 800
cc.  She was eventually extubated successfully on hospital
day number 18, but had an acute episode of mucus plugging,
which led to desaturation and tachycardia.

The patient was ruled out for a pulmonary embolism by CT
angiogram and her acute desaturation was resolved with
suctioning.  The patient, from that point on, was saturating
well on two liters of oxygen by nasal cannula and was felt
stable enough to be transferred to the floor.  At the point
of transfer, the patient was still on antibiotics that were
started in the Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.  Aortic
sclerosis.  3.  Hyperthyroidism.  4.  Anxiety.  5.
Depression.  6.  Syndrome of inappropriate diuretic hormone,
on fluid restriction.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Home medications include Diovan,
Norvasc, E-Vista, Levoxyl and hydralazine along with
multivitamins; at the time of transfer, the patient was on
levofloxacin 500 mg p.o.q.d., day 15 at time of transfer,
Synthroid 88 mcg p.o.q.d., Colace 100 mg p.o.b.i.d.,
lansoprazole 30 mg p.o.q.d., fentanyl patch 25 mcg, Norvasc
2.5 mg p.o.q.d., albuterol nebulizer, cefepime, and
vancomycin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient does not use tobacco or alcohol.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Unable to be obtained at this time.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, the patient
had a temperature of 98.2, heart rate 70, respiratory rate
25, blood pressure 133/38 and oxygen saturation 96% on two
liters nasal cannula. General:  Somnolent, arousable to pain,
apparently in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat:  Anicteric sclerae, no pallor, mucous membranes dry,
no lymphadenopathy, no thyromegaly.  Cardiovascular:  Regular
rate and rhythm, no murmur, rub or gallop, no jugular venous
distention, no edema.  Pulmonary:  Lungs:  Clear to
auscultation with bibasilar crackles.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds, no
organomegaly, no palpable masses.  Neurologic:  Only
arousable to pain, appears to be moving all four extremities
symmetrically.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 13, hematocrit 31.3,
platelet count 547,000, differential with 88% neutrophils and
4% bands, sodium 133, potassium 3.7, chloride 92, bicarbonate
32, creatinine 0.8, glucose 147, phenytoin level 2.1.  Total
fluid culture from original thoracentesis on the right side
grew Streptococcus pneumoniae.  Sputum, blood and urine
cultures drawn on [**2104-9-4**] were negative.  Pleural
fluid obtained from the second thoracentesis on the left side
was negative.  Blood, urine and sputum cultures drawn on
[**2104-9-8**] are pending at the time of transfer.

STUDIES:  Chest x-ray obtained on the day prior to transfer
showed a moderate right sided pleural effusion with a small
left sided effusion.  CT angiogram obtained the day prior to
transfer showed no pulmonary embolism, increasing left sided
pleural effusion and a decreasing right sided pleural
effusion.  A right upper quadrant ultrasound obtained ten
days prior to transfer was negative.  Magnetic resonance
imaging scan of the head obtained four days after initial
presentation to the hospital demonstrated hyperintense T2
signals in the brain stem thalamus and posterior parietal
lobes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  (continued from time of transfer)  A repeat
magnetic resonance imaging scan of the head showed reversal
of the above noted hyperintense T2 signal changes, however,
the second magnetic resonance imaging scan did reveal an area
in the posterior parietal lobe possibly consistent with a new
small infarction.

The patient's entire course on the medicine service was
characterized by waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**] mental status.  One moment
the patient would appear to be completely alert and engaging
conversation and, within an hour, she would be almost unable
to be aroused to pain.  Overall, her inability to be aroused
abated and her mental status generally improved.

The patient was hydrated cautiously with intravenous fluids.
Nutrition was given via tube feeds via a nasogastric tube.  A
TSH level was drawn and came back elevated at 22, with a free
T4 of 0.5.  The patient's thyroid medication was increased.

Serial chest x-rays revealed persistent bilateral lower lobe
atelectasis with a newly evolving left lower lobe infiltrate,
which subsequently began to resolve.  The patient's
antibiotics at the time of discharge were gradually
discontinued.

The patient was consistently subtherapeutic with her Dilantin
levels.  After about one week on the floor, the patient began
to express discomfort to palpation of the abdomen.  Liver
function tests were sent and were mildly elevated.  A right
upper quadrant ultrasound was obtained and was normal.
Dilantin was considered a possible culprit for causing
hepatotoxicity as well as decreased mental status, and was
discontinued.

The patient continued to improve mentally.  Several swallow
studies were obtained after the patient discontinued her own
nasogastric tube.  She failed these and, prior to discharge,
a gastrostomy tube was placed.  Her alkaline phosphatase
remained persistently elevated at a level of about 185 and
AST remained elevated at around 50.  GGT was elevated at 210.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1211**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1212**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2582**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2104-9-20**]  17:07
T:  [**2104-9-20**]  18:25
JOB#:  [**Job Number 44723**]
