Admission Date:  [**2161-3-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2161-3-12**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 85-year-old
former smoker with hypertension but no other significant past
medical history who presented to an outside hospital on
[**3-7**] with months of increasing dyspnea on exertion.

The patient also complained of approximately two days of
intermittent left arm pain and throat tightness.  The patient
reported that on the morning of her admission to the outside
hospital she woke up in a cold sweat with the left arm pain
and chest tightness and was brought to the Emergency
Department.

At the outside hospital, the patient ruled in for a
myocardial infarction by enzymes with a reported peak
troponin I of 17.  Electrocardiograms at the outside hospital
reportedly with ST depressions in leads II, III, aVF, and V4
to V6.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] on [**3-9**] for cardiac catheterization.  Cardiac
catheterization on [**3-9**] showed multivessel disease
including an 80% left main stenosis, tight stenosis at the
first diagonal with competitive flow, large ramus, but no
significant disease in the left circumflex, and 70% mid right
coronary artery, and 70% posterior descending artery origin
stenosis.

The patient was evaluated by Cardiothoracic Surgery but
refused coronary artery bypass graft, and instead opted for a
repeat cardiac catheterization with stent placement.  Stents
were placed at the left main, mid right coronary artery, and
the posterior descending artery on [**3-9**] during her
second cardiac catheterization.

On admission to the Coronary Care Unit the patient had no
complaints and denied any shortness of breath, arm symptoms,
chest pain, or throat symptoms.  The patient was in good
spirits and had no complaints.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history is significant
for)
1.  Hypertension; treated with one lone outpatient medication
(presumably hydrochlorothiazide).
2.  Smoking history of approximately one pack per day times
30 years.
3.  History of cataracts.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  The only medication at home was
believed to be thiazide diuretic.

ALLERGIES:  Reportedly allergic to PENICILLIN (with unknown
reaction, but the patient denies an anaphylactic reaction or
any breathing compromise as far as she knows).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Her blood pressure was
108/57, her heart rate was 90, her respiratory rate was 18,
and her oxygen saturation was 96% to 100% on room air.
Physical examination was notable for a small excoriation in
the upper drip with dried blood.  No jugular venous
distention.  The lungs were entirely clear.  Heart was
regular in rate and rhythm.  Normal first heart sounds and
second heart sounds.  No murmurs were appreciated.
Guaiac-negative stool times one.  Good pulses throughout; 1+
lower extremity pulses.  No edema.  A right sheath was in
place in the right groin.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed
sinus tachycardia, left anterior fascicular block, old T wave
inversion in aVL, and less than 1-mm ST depressions in V5 and
V6.

Electrocardiograms from the outside hospital were not
available.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Her white blood
cell count was 5.4, her hematocrit was 26.5 (without previous
baseline available), her mean cell volume was 92, and her
platelets were 247.  Her INR was 1.1.  Chemistries were
notable for a sodium of 128, blood urea nitrogen of 24, and
creatinine was 0.8.  Liver enzymes and bilirubin were normal.
Her albumin was 3.2.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient is an 85-year-old female ex-smoker with hypertension
but no other significant past medical history who presented
to an outside hospital on [**3-7**] with worsening dyspnea
on exertion and days of left arm pain and throat tightness
and ruled in by enzymes at the outside hospital.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for catheterization which showed multivessel disease
as outlined above.  The patient refused a coronary artery
bypass graft, and status post stent times three on [**3-9**].

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:   (a)  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE
ISSUES:  The patient was not on a beta blocker, statin, or
aspirin at home.  The patient with a non-ST-elevation
myocardial infarction at the outside hospital.

The patient underwent catheterization (as mentioned above)
which she tolerated well without known complications.  The
patient was maintained on Integrilin for approximately 18
hours after catheterization.  The patient was also started on
metoprolol 12.5 mg by mouth twice per day, Lipitor 20 mg by
mouth once per day, Plavix 75 mg by mouth once per day, and
aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.  The patient tolerated
these medications well.  The patient had no episodes of
anginal symptoms such as her left arm pain or neck tightness
throughout the remainder of her hospital stay.

The patient's breathing remained comfortable on room air, and
she was able to ambulate comfortably on the day of discharge.

(b)  PUMP ISSUES:  The patient without known congestive heart
failure; however, she reportedly may have flashed at the
outside hospital which responded to Lasix.  Per the left
ventriculography during cardiac catheterization, her ejection
fraction was preserved.  A formal echocardiogram was
performed on [**3-10**] which showed an ejection fraction of
approximately 50%, probable anterior wall hypokinesis, and 1
to 2+ mitral regurgitation; but was otherwise normal.

The patient was started on an ACE inhibitor in the hospital
which was titrated up and was changed to lisinopril 10 mg by
mouth once per day at discharge.  The patient tolerated this
well.

(c)  RHYTHM ISSUES:  The patient had a bradycardic arrest in
the Catheterization Laboratory likely related to increased
vagal tone during manipulation of her coronaries.  This
bradycardic arrest responded [**Last Name (un) 18497**] traction and atropine.
The patient was in a normal sinus rhythm throughout the
remainder of her hospital stay without any significant events
on telemetry.

(d)  HEMODYNAMIC ISSUES:  Hemodynamics were stable.  The
patient's blood pressure tolerated the beta blocker and ACE
inhibitor well and remained in the 100 to 130 range
throughout her hospital stay.

2.  MELENA ISSUES:  The patient was noted to have three to
four episodes of melanic stools in the Coronary Care Unit
which were grossly guaiac-positive.  The patient did report
that she had a nose bleed that dripped into the back of her
throat for approximately two days; beginning approximately
two days prior to the cardiac catheterization.

Gastroenterology was consulted and followed the patient
throughout her hospital stay.  The patient underwent an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) on [**3-11**] which showed
gastritis of the stomach without any visible ulcerations.
The patient's melanotic stools were therefore thought to be
due to a combination of her nose bleeds and some minimal
oozing from her gastritis.  The patient was started on a
proton pump inhibitor twice per day and was discharged with a
prescription for this.  The patient's stools prior to
discharge had become dark brown as opposed to black.  The
patient did not have any further episodes of melanic stools.

The patient received two units of packed red blood cells on
her first day of admission at [**Hospital1 188**] for her hematocrit of 26.5.  Her hematocrit increased
appropriately and was stable in the low to mid 30s throughout
the remainder of her hospital stay.  Her hematocrit was
checked serially due to the possible gastrointestinal bleed.
The patient was also maintained on two large-bore intravenous
lines due to this reason and initially nothing by mouth.

3.  HYPONATREMIA ISSUES:  The patient became slightly
hyponatremic while in the Coronary Care Unit likely due to
being on one-half normal saline and free water intake.  This
resolved by the time of discharge after her fluids were
switched to normal saline and after the patient was resumed
her regular diet.

4.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION ISSUES:  The patient was
initially nothing by mouth due to her catheterization and her
esoph