Admission Date:  [**2180-2-4**]              Discharge Date:   [**2180-3-9**]

Date of Birth:  [**2104-1-23**]             Sex:   M

Service: SURGERY

Allergies:
Amiloride / Atenolol / Cardura / Amoxicillin

Attending:[**First Name3 (LF) 2597**]
Chief Complaint:
AAA

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
1.  Resection and repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm with 18 mm
Dacron tube graft.

2. Flexible sigmoidoscopy [**2180-2-7**]

3. Flexible sigmoidoscopy [**2180-2-15**]


History of Present Illness:
This 76-year-old gentleman has a 5.5 cm aneurysm of the
infrarenal aorta. The anatomy was unsuitable for endovascular
repair.


Past Medical History:
COPD,
asthma,
CAD recent angio for unstable angina,
Chronic afib,
HTN,
OSA,
GERD,
freq nose bleeds,
s/p pilonidal cyst

Social History:
pos smoker
pos alcohol

Family History:
non contributary

Physical Exam:
PE:

AFVSS

NEURO:

PERRL / EOMI

MAE

Neg pronator drift

Sensation intact to ST

Neg Babinski

HEENT:

NCAT

Neg lesions nares, oral pharnyx, auditory

Supple / FAROM / Trach placed without signs of infection

neg lyphandopathy, supra clavicular nodes

LUNGS: CTA b/l

CARDIAC: RRR without murmers

ABDOMEN: Soft, NTTP, ND, pos BS, neg CVA tenderness, PEG tube
placed

EXT:

rle - palp fem, [**Doctor Last Name **], pt, dp

lle - palp fem, [**Doctor Last Name **], pt, dp


Pertinent Results:
INDICATION: 76-year-old man status post abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair. Please place PICC line.

TECHNIQUE/FINDINGS: The patient was placed supine on the
angiography table. Ultrasound demonstrated patent left brachial
and basilic veins. The left arm was prepped and draped in the
usual sterile fashion. 1% lidocaine was administered
subcutaneously for local anesthesia. Under ultrasound guidance,
at 21-gauge introducer needle was inserted into the left basilic
vein. A 0.018-inch guide wire was advanced through the needle
into the superior vena cava using fluoroscopic guidance. The
needle was exchanged for an introducer sheath and then a
4-French single lumen PICC was cut to a length of 48 cm based on
the markings on the wire. The PICC was placed over the wire
through the sheath and the wire and sheath were removed. The
catheter was flushed and aspirated, capped and heplocked. The
catheter was fixed in place using a statlock device, and sterile
transparent dressing was applied. A final limited chest
radiograph confirmed catheter tip position in the superior vena
cava/right atrial junction. There were no procedural, or
immediate post- procedural complications. The catheter is ready
for use.

IMPRESSION: Successful placement of a 48-cm 4-French single
lumen PICC by way of the left basilic vein, with the tip in the
superior vena cava. The catheter is ready for use.

[**2180-3-7**] 4:57 AM

CHEST (PORTABLE AP)

FINDINGS: The left lung base and extreme right lung base are
excluded from the radiograph. Allowing for this factor, the
cardiomediastinal silhouette appears stable. A tracheostomy tube
and right subclavian venous catheter remain unchanged in
standard positions. No pneumothorax or mediastinal widening is
present. A small to moderate right and smaller left pleural
effusion are unchanged. The pulmonary vasculature is normal.
There is continued right infrahilar opacity, which could
represent a small pneumonia.

IMPRESSION: Limited study secondary to exclusion of the lung
bases from the radiograph. Persistent small to moderate
bilateral pleural effusions with right perihilar opacity, which
could represent focal pneumonia.

If clinically indicated, the chest radiograph can be repeated
with no additional cost to the patient.

[**2180-2-25**] 11:11 AM

MR HEAD W/O CONTRAST; MRA BRAIN W/O CONTRAST

No prior studies are available for comparison.

TECHNIQUE: Multiplanar T1- and T2-weighted images of the brain
were obtained, with diffusion-weighted images.

MRI OF THE BRAIN: The study is somewhat limited by motion
artifact. The ventricles and sulci are prominent, consistent
with involutional change. There is no shift of normally midline
structures. There are no foci of restricted diffusion within the
brain to suggest acute infarction. There are small foci of
T2-hyperintensity within the cerebral periventricular white
matter, nonspecific, likely representing chronic micro-ischemic
change, and small chronic lacunes are noted within the right
basal ganglia and periventricular white matter. There are no
abnormal foci of susceptibility within the brain to indicate
either acute or chronic hemorrhage. Fluid is noted within both
mastoid air cells, perhaps related to prolonged supine position
and/or intubation.

MRA OF THE BRAIN: The intracranial vertebral and internal
carotid arteries are patent with normal signal. Minimally
attenuated middle cerebral arteries with mural irregularity,
bilaterally, consistent with mild atherosclerotic change. The
major vessels of the circle of [**Location (un) 431**] are patent, without
aneurysmal dilation or flow-limiting stenosis. The left
vertebral artery terminates in the left PICA, a common anatomic
variant.

IMPRESSION:
1. No evidence of hemorrhage, acute infarct or cerebral edema.
2. Foci of T2 hyperintensity within the cerebral periventricular
white matter, likely representing chronic microvascular ischemic
change. Small lacunar infarctions are noted particularly within
the right periventricular cerebral white matter.
3. Unremarkable cranial MRA with no flow-limiting stenosis.

EEG Study Date of [**2180-2-21**]

OBJECT: EVALUATE FOR SEIZURES.


FINDINGS:

ABNORMALITY #1: Throughout this recording, a generally slowed
background rhythm was seen. It was predominantly in the mixed
theta
frequency range. No sharp or epileptiform features were
observed. At
times, normal waking background rhythms were seen.

SLEEP: No stage II sleep was observed.

CARDIAC MONITOR: Showed an irregularly irregular rate and
rhythm.

IMPRESSION: This is a mildly abnormal EEG due to the presence of
theta
frequency background slowing seen predominantly throughout this
recording. No focal or epileptiform features were observed.
Common
causes of encephalopathies include medications, metabolic
processes,
infectious processes, and anoxic events. Note is made of an
irregular
cardiac rhythm

[**2180-2-14**] 11:32 AM

CT CHEST W/CONTRAST; CT ABDOMEN W/CONTRAST

INDICATION: Recent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, now with
leukocytosis.

COMPARISON: CT of the abdomen and pelvis from [**2180-2-6**].

TECHNIQUE: Multidetector CT scanning was performed from the
level of the thoracic inlet to the level of the pubic symphysis
after the administration of oral and intravenous contrast (150
cc of Optiray).

CT OF THE CHEST: An endotracheal tube tip terminates 7.2 cm
above the carina on the scout image. Nasogastric tube tip is
seen within the fundus of the stomach. A right-sided Swan-Ganz
catheter tip is in the right main pulmonary artery. A left
central venous line tip is in the superior vena cava. Borderline
lymphadenopathy is seen in the paratracheal, precarinal,
subcarinal, and prevascular regions, the largest node measures
12 mm in short axis and is best seen on series 2, image 28.
There is a small pericardial effusion. The heart and great
vessels appear unremarkable. Again seen are extensive
emphysematous changes in the lungs bilaterally. Small bilateral
pleural effusions are seen with associated adjacent compressive
atelectasis. In the left lower lobe, fluid-filled bronchi are
seen within areas of atelectasis.

CT OF THE ABDOMEN: The liver, gallbladder, adrenal glands,
spleen, and pancreas appear unremarkable. There is a small
amount of fluid in the perihepatic region, as well as the right
and left paracolic gutters and anterior to Gerota's fascia on
the left. The loops of small and large bowel appear normal in
caliber and contour. The kidneys enhance and excrete contrast
symmetrically. Again seen is a right parapelvic cyst, which is
unchanged since the prior study. The previously seen
retroperitoneal stranding in the perirenal and pararenal spaces
is improved since the prior study. Again seen is thickening of
Gerota fascia, left greater than right. The patient is status
post open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, with