Admission Date:  [**2178-5-8**]       Discharge Date:  [**2178-6-13**]


Service:  ICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Decreased hematocrit, increased INR.

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an
84-year-old male who presented for outpatient ERCP and was
found to have a newly diminished hematocrit to 17 and newly
increased INR to 3.0.  The patient had recently been
diagnosed with diabetes mellitus three months ago and started
on insulin.  Approximately 3 1/2 weeks ago, the patient
developed dark urine and went to his primary care physician
who noted jaundice and had the patient go for a CT of the
abdomen where a mass in the head of the pancreas was seen.
The patient was scheduled for outpatient ERCP on the day of
presentation.

Upon presentation, he noted melenic dark black stools mixed
with some [**Male First Name (un) 1658**]-colored stools, fatigue, back pain, early
satiety and some decreased appetite.  The patient was
admitted to the General Medical Service and Gastroenterology
was consulted for ERCP.  The patient was evaluated and
concern for pancreatic carcinoma led to scheduling for an
ERCP.  There was also concern for a possible biliary
obstruction given the elevated alkaline phosphatase of 1,818
and total bilirubin of 12.4 and so the procedure was also for
the purpose of decompression.

On the day after admission, the patient had received 2 units
of packed red blood cells and had a CT of the abdomen which
revealed a 3.2 cm mass in the head of the pancreas with clear
fat planes between the mass and all surrounding abdominal
organs with vascular structures intact with the exception of
the mass which abutted and possibly invaded the duodenum.
The SMV, portal vein, SMA, gastroduodenal artery and stomach
were all free from involvement.  There was massive intra and
extrahepatic biliary ductal dilatation and pancreatic ductal
dilatation upstream to the pancreatic head mass.  Incidental
finding of a small left renal cyst versus angiomyolipoma was
noted.

The patient had episodic desaturations to the low 70s to 80s
which improved to 90s with supplemental oxygen.  Chest x-ray
done at one of the episodes revealed diffuse interstitial
opacities, raising a question of pulmonary edema versus
lymphangitic spread versus atelectasis with collapse versus
pneumonia.  The patient received a trial of IV Lasix and
concern for ongoing clinical deterioration led to the
consideration for ICU level care.

On [**2178-5-10**], the patient was found to be very short of
breath, saturating mid 90s on a 100% nonrebreather.  The
patient's white blood cell count was noted to continue to
rise into the mid 20s and his renal function was found to
decline with a creatinine of 2.2 concerning for ATN.  There
was concern for evolving sepsis in the setting of biliary
obstruction and possible cholangitis.  The patient had been
started on ceftriaxone and Flagyl for antibiotic coverage.
The patient was electively transferred to the ICU and
evaluated for emergent biliary decompression.

Infectious Disease was consulted and recommended that the
patient undergo treatment with Zosyn 2.25 grams IV q. eight
hours.  The patient was admitted to the ICU.  The patient's
hematocrit was noted to continue to be low and he was given 3
units of packed red blood cells along with vitamin K 10 mg
subcutaneously for an elevated INR.  The patient's hypoxia
was thought to be secondary to multilobar pneumonia versus
evolving ARDS.  There was concern about the need to intubate
preprocedure in order to enable the patient to undergo ERCP.
The patient's acute renal failure was thought secondary to
possible prerenal state in the setting of sepsis.

Renal was consulted for further evaluation of the patient's
acute renal failure and it was felt that the patient's acute
renal failure was secondary to acute interstitial nephritis
in the setting of treatment with Zosyn.  The Zosyn was
discontinued and the patient underwent supportive care with
avoidance of nephrotoxins and discontinuation of the
patient's angiotensin receptor blocker.

At 7:35 p.m. on [**2178-5-10**], the patient was intubated for
progressive hypoxemia. The patient underwent emergent ERCP
which showed a giant ulcer in the posterior vault, evidence
of previous cholecystectomy, biliary stricture compatible
with known tumor in the head of the pancreas.  The patient
was continued on broad spectrum antibiotics.  There was
inability to place this biliary stent on the first attempt.

The patient returned to the ERCP Suite on [**2178-5-11**] and
sphincterotomy was performed with a coated walled stent
placed in the distal common bile duct.  There was concern for
malignant ulcer in the posterior duodenal bulb, distal common
bile duct stricture consistent with the known tumor in the
head of the pancreas.  Surgery was consulted for a possible
Whipple procedure; however, given the patient's current
clinical status at this time, no surgical intervention was
needed at the time.

The patient was followed by Renal who recommended the use of
diuretics for volume control.  Cortisol levels revealed that
the patient did not have any evidence of adrenal
insufficiency.  He transiently required pressors consisting
of Levophed but this was eventually able to be weaned off.
The patient was bronchoscoped for evaluation of pneumonia
versus ARDS.  The patient's pancreatic and liver function
tests diminished after ERCP.  The option of dialysis was
presented and the family elected not to partake of this.  The
patient's volume was able to be controlled with intravenous
diuretics.  The patient was ventilated with low tidal volumes
and increased respiratory rate per the ARDS net protocol.

An esophageal balloon was used to guide the patient's PEEP
requirement and this suggested ARDS as the patient had
increased chest wall and abdominal pressures.  The patient's
ICU course was also complicated by hyponatremia which
warranted increased free water boluses.  The patient required
an insulin drip for glycemic control which was worse in the
setting of infection.  The patient underwent diuresis to try
to decrease the amount of FI02 that he was requiring.

By [**2178-5-23**], the patient showed improvement in his
ventilatory requirements as well as ability to come off
pressor agents.  His acute renal failure continued to
improve.  The Renal Service recommended a short steroid
course of prednisone to treat the patient's acute
interstitial nephritis.  This was initiated with steady
improvement in the patient's creatinine which had reached a
high of 8.5.  The patient developed some neutropenia which
was also felt to be due to a reaction of Zosyn.  This
resolved spontaneously with discontinuation of the
medication.  Also, in support of a reaction to Zosyn, the
patient developed a maculopapular rash.  All of these
improved with the discontinuation of the drug.

The patient had been afebrile for a significant amount of his
ICU stay and around [**2178-5-21**], developed low-grade
temperature elevation and cultures were drawn.  The patient
eventually grew MRSA from sputum, likely related to
ventilator-associated pneumonia.  He was started on
vancomycin for treatment of this.  Given the possible
presence of a drug reaction and some decreased urine output
and difficulty controlling the patient's volume, the patient
was diuresed with ethacrynic acid with good response.  The
patient developed hematuria for which Urology consult was
obtained and this was thought to be secondary to ethacrynic
acid which is associated with gross hematuria and the patient
was diuresed further with Lasix in place of ethacrynic acid.

The patient developed a contraction alkalosis for which he
received Diamox with a good improvement.  The patient's ARDS
was shown to resolve on serial chest x-rays.  The patient
underwent weaning from the ventilator and his sedation was
changed from Ativan to propofol in the hope of achieving
sustained extubation.

On [**2178-6-4**], a family meeting was held with the plan to
discuss the need for reintubation after an extubation
attempt.  The family elected to reintubate in the event of an
extubation failure.  The patient was extubated successfully
on [**2178-6-4**].  He remained w