Admission Date:  [**2129-11-3**]     Discharge Date:  [**2129-11-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2062-6-2**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 66 year old woman who
presented to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 468**] approximately a year after an
episode of acute pancreatitis attributed to alcohol abuse.
At the time of that pancreatitis episode, she had a CT scan
which revealed a small pseudo cyst.  However, on recent CT
scan, she was found to still have a small cyst, under the
size of one cm, in the head of her pancreas.

Clinically, she remained well over the previous year, without
fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting or other troubles.  In
[**2129-9-19**], she developed rapid onset of painless
jaundice.  CT scan at this time revealed only dilated extra
hepatic biliary tract.  She had a right upper quadrant
ultrasound which showed a dilated common bile duct and
gallbladder but no evidence of common bile duct stones.

Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was performed
and a high grade focal stricture of the distal common bile
duct was observed.  A stent was placed and she was sent to
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 468**] for evaluation.

The patient denies fevers, chills or other symptoms of
cholangitis.  She also denies weight loss, history of cancer
or recent exacerbation of alcohol use.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Breast biopsy, appendectomy, a remote
laparoscopy.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypercholesterolemia; paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation; mild mitral insufficiency and an alcohol
history of four Manhattans a day.

MEDICATIONS:  Lanoxin, Norvasc, Zestril, Zocor, Allopurinol,
Axid, Folic acid and multi-vitamins.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a retired teacher.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On examination, she has jaundice and
has scleral icterus.  The rest of her Head, eyes, ears, nose
and throat examination was normal.  She had normal carotid
pulses without bruits and no jugular venous distention.  Her
chest was clear and her heart was regular rate and rhythm.
She did have grade II out of 6 mid systolic ejection murmur,
heard best at the apex.  Her abdomen was soft, nondistended
and nontender.  Her gallbladder was not palpable.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  She underwent a high contrast CT arterial
study and was then brought into [**Hospital1 188**], where she underwent on [**2129-11-3**], a Whipple
procedure.

Postoperatively, she was placed on prophylactic
benzodiazepine for possible delirium tremens.  She was also
placed on subcutaneous heparin, Zantac, Testall and her pain
was controlled with an epidural.

Initially, she was neo-synephrine dependent and she had very
subtle electrocardiogram changes postoperatively. Cardiology
was consulted and a myocardial infarction was ruled out with
negative enzymes.  She remained in the Intensive Care Unit
overnight, secondary to the neo drip.  However, throughout,
she had excellent urine output.

The evening of postoperative day one, her epidural was
switched to a PCA for better pain control; however, she was
found to be over narcotized and required a Narcan drip to
alleviate this problem.

On postoperative day number two, she was doing well and she
was transferred to the floor.  Over the next few days, she
continued to do well.  On postoperative day four, she
required some Lasix for mild pulmonary edema on clinical
examination.  This resolved with upright positioning and the
diuresis with the Lasix.

On postoperative day number seven, she was noted to have a
large amount of wound drainage and her wound was open for
copious amounts of somewhat enteric looking drainage.  She
went for CT scan to rule out fistula or leak.  The only
finding was a possible SMB clot.  Over this time as well, her
platelets dropped from 325 to 64 and then by postoperative
day number seven, down to nine.  Hit antibody was sent.  All
heparin was removed from her lines and subcutaneous.  Zantac
was stopped.  DIC laboratory studies were sent and found to
be unremarkable.

We placed Venodynes on her legs for deep vein thrombosis
prophylaxis and requested a hematology consult.  The
hematology consult agreed with our management and
furthermore, advised holding any anticoagulation, secondary
to a risk of bleed, given that her platelet count was only
nine.  Her platelet count remained nine over postoperative
day eight.  Early in the morning on postoperative day number
nine, she became anuric, hypotensive and her hematocrit was
found to have dropped to 22.  She was transferred to the
Intensive Care Unit.  Swan-Ganz was placed for fluid
management.  She was actively resuscitated with blood
products and fluid.  She was taken to the operating room for
exploration of possible abdominal bleed.

Upon opening the abdomen in the operating room, however, the
small bowel was found to be entirely infarcted with
catastrophic abdominal findings.  She was reclosed without
any further intervention and brought back to the Intensive
Care Unit.  We supported her blood pressure with pressors and
fluids until her family could be fully present.  At that
point, she was made comfort measures only.  She expired.








                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4984**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7589**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2129-11-12**]
T:  [**2129-11-16**]  05:07
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
