Admission Date:  [**2159-8-5**]     Discharge Date:  [**2159-8-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2112-11-11**]     Sex:  F

Service:

Dictating for:  [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3184**], M.D.

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pressure.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 46-year-old
female with cardiac risk factors of a positive family history
and tobacco use who was in her usual state of health until 7
a.m. on the day prior to admission when she noted the sudden
onset of chest pain which was intermittent throughout the day
and radiated to her left arm.  This chest pain was associated
with nausea, shortness of breath, and diaphoresis.

She presented to the [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Department and was found to have inferior ST
elevations.  While in the Emergency Department she was
started on aspirin, heparin, and Integrilin.  She was
hypotensive upon arrival and was then started on dopamine.
While in the Emergency Department she had an episode of
ventricular fibrillation arrest requiring shock therapy times
one at 200 joules.

She was then taken to the Catheterization Laboratory
emergently and found to have a 100% mid right coronary artery
lesion which was treated by stent placement.  While in the
Catheterization Laboratory she required a temporary wire
placement for complete heart block as well as shock therapy
times two, and an amiodarone intravenously drip was started
for current ventricular fibrillation.  She had an
intra-aortic balloon pump placed and was sent to the Coronary
Care Unit in stable condition.

Of note, her hemodynamic revealed a mean arterial pressure of
37 and a mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 31.  Her
echocardiogram showed no tamponade or effusions.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   None.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  No medications at home.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Positive tobacco smoking history for
approximately 20 years or so.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history of coronary artery disease
in her mother.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed vital signs with a weight of 59 kilograms, heart
rate was 71, her blood pressure was 99/64, and her oxygen
saturation was 100%.  The patient was ventilated on assist
control with a tidal volume of 300, respiratory rate of 24,
FIO2 of 100%, positive end-expiratory pressure of 5, and she
was saturating 100%.  In general, a middle-aged female,
intubated and sedated.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed pupils were 5 mm and reactive.
Normocephalic and atraumatic.  The neck was supple.  No
lymphadenopathy, and no bruits appreciated.  Chest
examination revealed the lungs were clear to auscultation
anteriorly.  No wheezes.  Cardiovascular examination revealed
heart was regular, intra-aortic balloon pump sounds, no rubs
or gallops.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  Extremity examination
revealed no edema.  Dopplerable pulses.   Extremities were
cool to touch.  Neurologic examination revealed the patient
was sedated.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed her white blood cell count was 22.9 and her
hematocrit was 35.7.   Her blood sugar/glucose was 375.
Creatinine was 0.8.  INR was 1.  Initial creatine kinase was
57.  Troponin was less than 0.01.  Next creatine kinase was
1109.  Troponin was 0.56.   Lactate was 6.5.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed
complete heart block with ST elevations in leads II, III, and
aVF, and V3.  Early R wave progression.  ST depressions in
leads I and aVL.

A chest x-ray revealed no pneumonia and appropriate placement
of intra-aortic balloon pump.

An echocardiogram revealed no effusions.  Poor echo windows.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  Ischemia:  The patient was
maintained on aspirin, Plavix, a heparin drip, and an
Integrilin drip times 18 hours status post catheterization.
The patient's beta blocker was initially held due to a
decrease in blood pressure and intra-aortic balloon pump.
The patient was maintained on dopamine in house which was
subsequently weaned off.  The patient's ACE inhibitor
initially held.  A statin was started with a goal low-density
lipoprotein of less than 100.  The patient was counseled
significantly on smoking cessation.

On hospital day two, the patient's intra-aortic balloon pump
was removed without any complications.  Her creatine kinase
had peaked to a level of [**2181**].  She was extubated without
complications.  Initially tolerated 4 liters, down to 2
liters.  On the day of discharge, she was saturating 94% on
room air.  The patient's dopamine was subsequently weaned off
with an elevation in her blood pressure, and the patient was
started on Lopressor and captopril titrated doses to a
discharge dose for Toprol-XL of 100 mg and captopril changed
to lisinopril 20 mg by mouth once per day.   The patient
initially had a heparin drip, but this was discontinued after
the removal of the intra-aortic balloon pump.

(b)  Pump:  The patient had initially presented in
cardiogenic shock and received 4 liters of intravenous fluids
in the Emergency Department.  The patient was maintained and
volume resuscitated during her course in the Coronary Care
Unit.  The patient was initially started on dopamine which
was eventually weaned off; we continued to keep her mean
arterial pressures of greater than 16 and was subsequently
eventually weaned off.  The intra-aortic balloon pump was
also weaned off after extubation of the patient on hospital
day two.

An echocardiogram was done on hospital day three which showed
an ejection fraction of greater than 55%, mild regional left
ventricular systolic function, with hypokinesis in the basal
inferoseptal and basal inferior regions, 1+ mitral
regurgitation, and 1+ tricuspid regurgitation.  No further
anticoagulation was given.

(c)  Rhythm:  The patient is currently in sinus rhythm, but
had recurrent ventricular fibrillation arrest both during
catheterization.  The patient was maintained initially on an
amiodarone drip and temporary pacing wires in place which
were discontinued on hospital day two.  The amiodarone drip
was also stopped.  She had no further episodes of ventricular
tachycardia or any abnormal rhythms during the remainder of
her hospitalization.  The patient did not require any further
workup, and she was maintained on telemetry until the day of
discharge.

On hospital day three, the patient had two episodes of
recurrent chest pain which showed no electrocardiogram
changes and responded to one sublingual nitroglycerin tablet
with full relief.  The patient was subsequently started
Isordil while in house and was to be discharged with Imdur
for continued angina.  This was unlikely to be acute coronary
syndrome given the fact that she had received catheterization
prior.

2.  PULMONARY ISSUES:  The patient initially presented with
severe shortness of breath, and she was ventilated initially
on assist control which was done.  The patient was
subsequently weaned off on hospital day two and extubated
without complications.

3.  GASTROINTESTINAL ISSUES:  The patient has a history of
coffee-grounds emesis upon arrival to the Coronary Care Unit,
but this subsequently resolved.  She was maintained on
intravenous Protonix twice per day.  Serial examinations
showed no further episodes, and her hematocrit remained
stable.  The patient was to be discharged on a proton pump
inhibitor.

4.  HEMATOLOGIC ISSUES:  The patient's hematocrit remained
stable throughout her hospitalization.  On the day prior to
discharge, she had a slight drop in her hematocrit which was
likely due to the fact that she initiated a full diet and
started to take lots of oral intake.  [**Month (only) 116**] have been
dilutional.  The patient was transfused with a hematocrit of
32 on the day of discharge.

5.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  On hospital day three, the
patient had a temperature spike of 102.1 degrees Fahrenheit.
Blood cultures and urine cultures which were no growth to
date up to the day of discharge.  A STAT chest x-ray was
obtained which showed some conso