Admission Date:  [**2163-5-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2163-5-27**]


Service:  VASCULAR SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old
female with a one month history of right first toe pain.  The
patient has been recently treated with antibiotics, but this
pain has not improved.  She has also developed an area of
ulceration on the first toe.  She denied any fevers, chills,
chest pain, shortness of breath, or nausea and vomiting.  She
also denied any claudication or rest pain, and has no history
of diabetes, hypertension or coronary artery disease.  She is
admitted for evaluation of right first toe pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Congestive heart failure, 2)
Osteoarthritis, 3) Rheumatoid arthritis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  She is status post a right leg
fracture in [**2138**] which included rodding of the tibia.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  1) lasix 40 mg po qd, 2) digoxin 0.125 po qd,
3) Aleve for pain prn.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She denies tobacco use.  No ETOH use.  Lives
alone and has children in the area.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  The patient is in no acute distress.  Tongue
is midline.  Neck is supple with palpable carotids and no
bruits.  Chest is clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Heart
is regular.  Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended.  On
pulse exam, she has palpable pulses bilaterally of her radial
artery, femoral artery, popliteal artery.  On the left, she
has a palpable dorsalis pedis, and she has monophasic Doppler
signals of the posterior tibial bilaterally.  Her right great
toe appears dusky at the tip with dry gangrene at the distal
phalanges.  There is no erythema or purulence.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White count 8.1, hematocrit 40,
BUN 26, creatinine 1.1, INR 1.2.

Chest x-ray demonstrates cardiomegaly with no evidence of
congestive heart failure or infiltrate.  EKG - atrial
fibrillation with a left bundle branch block, T waves in V1
and 2, and J-points in V3 through V5.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the vascular
surgery service.  She was placed on broad-spectrum
antibiotics and was prepared for angiography of the right
lower extremity.  This was done on hospital day #2 and this
demonstrated mild disease of the superficial femoral artery.
There was single vessel run-off via the anterior tibial and
this occludes at the level of the ankle.  The right peroneal
occludes at the proximal calf, and the right posterior tibial
artery was occluded.  There was reconstitution of a markedly
diffuse and diseased attenuated plantar branch.  There was no
dorsalis pedis, and a right tibial intramedullary rod was
present during the examination.

The patient was prepared for angiography in appropriate
fashion with preangio Mucomyst and IV hydration.  She
tolerated this well.  On hospital day #3, the results of this
were reviewed, and the decision was made that there would be
no possibility of an extra-anatomic bypass to revascularize
the foot, and the decision was made that the patient would be
best suited to have a below-knee amputation.  She underwent a
cardiology evaluation which included a Persantine MIBI which
showed an ejection fraction of 68% and normal wall motion.

On hospital day #5, the patient was taken to the operating
room where she underwent a right below-knee amputation.  She
tolerated this procedure well and postoperatively was
returned to the floor.

On postoperative day #1, her fluids were Hep-Locked, and her
diet was advanced.  A physical therapy consult was obtained.
On postoperative day #2, the patient was found by staff to be
in respiratory distress.  She had apparently aspirated during
lunch, and due to her failing respiratory status she was
intubated on the floor and transferred to the Intensive Care
Unit.  She underwent an immediate bronchoscopy in the
Intensive Care Unit which demonstrated some debris within the
larger bronchi and this was suctioned.  She also had a
bronchoalveolar lavage sent for culture which has shown no
growth to date.

Over postoperative day # and #4, the patient was awake,
following commands, and her ventilator support was weaned.
Her chest x-ray showed improvement.  She was extubated on
postoperative day #4 and was transferred to the VICU in
stable condition.  She remained hemodynamically stable and
underwent a swallow study which demonstrated aspiration with
thin liquids.  The speech and swallow therapist recommended
patient to receive ground solids and honey thickened liquids.
She was also placed on aspiration precautions with her head
of bed at 90??????, and supervised PO intakes.

Physical therapy reassessed the patient, and her below-knee
amputation stump has been healing well.  She is stable and
ready for discharge with aspiration precautions, and to
receive physical therapy for her surgery.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  1) Nonhealing right first toe ulcer.
2) Status post below-knee amputation.  3) Aspiration.  4)
Emergent intubation for aspiration.  5) History of congestive
heart failure.  6) History of osteoarthritis.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1) digoxin 0.125 mg po qd, 2)
Levofloxacin 250 mg po qd x 7 days, 3) Protonix 40 mg po qd,
4) lasix 20 mg po qd, 5) Dulcolax 10 mg PR prn, 6) insulin
sliding scale, 7) heparin 5,000 units subcu [**Hospital1 **].

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS TO REHAB:  1) To receive physical
therapy.  2) The right BK stump can remain with a dry
dressing as needed.  3) The patient will remain in a knee
immobilizer at all times until follow-up.  4) The patient may
have activity as tolerated.  5) The patient will continue to
remain on aspiration precautions, supervised PO intakes, and
head of bed elevated at 90??????.  6) Her diet will consist of
ground solids and honey thickened nectars.  7) She will
follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] in two weeks.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4417**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3835**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2163-5-26**]  10:00
T:  [**2163-5-26**]  08:59
JOB#:  [**Job Number 49245**]
