Admission Date:  [**2151-4-14**]     Discharge Date:  [**2151-4-18**]


Service:  SICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Transferred from outside hospital for a
bronchoscopy by family wishes.

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an
81-year-old man with a past medical history significant for
hypertension, COPD, status post multiple hospitalizations for
this in the recent few months, new onset atrial fibrillation,
alcohol abuse, moderate aortic stenosis, who presented to
[**Hospital3 **] on [**2151-3-23**] with a COPD flare after
being discharged two weeks prior with a  COPD flare.  At that
time, the patient's symptoms were cough, productive yellow
sputum, fever, chills, and difficulty breathing.  In the
Emergency Room, at the outside hospital, chest x-ray showed
acute infiltrate superimposed on chronic right middle lobe
infiltrate.  One month prior to admission, a right pleural
based mass was seen.  He had a repeat CAT scan on admission
at [**Hospital3 **] with an increase in size of mass.  The
patient was initially treated with Levaquin for
community-acquired pneumonia as well as steroids for a COPD
exacerbation; however, he grew MRSA in his sputum culture on
[**2151-4-12**].  He was started on vancomycin at that time.
In addition, he had new onset atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular response that was treated with Diltiazem and then
loaded with Amiodarone.  This led to a likely rate-induced
ischemia with peak troponin I to 0.54.

The patient was given Lovenox to a Coumadin bridge.  Of note,
he had Guaiac positive diarrhea two days after admission
prior to starting anticoagulation.  He was treated with 2
units of packed red blood cells on [**2151-4-10**] for a
hematocrit of 26.6 down from 36 on [**2151-4-6**].  There
were no further Guaiac stools at that time.

On [**2151-4-12**], he had an episode of hypoxia with P02
66.8, PC02 58, saturating 92% on a nonrebreather mask.  He
was then transferred to the [**Hospital1 18**] for further evaluation of
his hypoxia and questionable lung mass.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  COPD, status post multiple hospitalizations and flares.
3.  Alcohol abuse.
4.  Moderate aortic stenosis with a reported valve area of
0.9.
5.  New onset atrial fibrillation.
6.  MRSA pneumonia, as described in HPI.
7.  Questionable right lower lobe mass versus round
atelectasis.
8.  Questionable IBD.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:
1.  Coumadin 5 mg q.h.s.
2.  Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3.  Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4.  Multivitamin.
5.  Rifampin 600 mg q.d.
6.  Vancomycin 1 gram IV q.d., day number one is
approximately [**2151-4-12**].
7.  Zovirax 400 mg p.o. t.i.d.
8.  Lovenox 60 mg subcutaneously b.i.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient smoked for 45 years, two packs
per day.  He also has a history of asbestos exposure.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  Temperature
100.3, pulse 73, blood pressure 180/60, respirations 21, 93%
on a 50% face mask.  General:  The patient was in no acute
distress, speaking in full sentences.  HEENT:  Significant
for a lesion in the middle of his upper lip that had
irregular borders, nontender.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate
and rhythm with a III/VI holosystolic murmur at the left
sternal border heard throughout the precordium.  Pulmonary:
Poor inspiratory effort, wheezes bilaterally, crackles
one-third of the way up bilaterally.  Abdomen: Soft,
nontender with active bowel sounds, right lower quadrant scar
from appendectomy.  Extremities:  No cyanosis or clubbing,
[**2-23**]+ edema to the mid thigh bilaterally, small weeping ulcer
on left lower extremity.  Neurologic:  Intact.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  On admission, white blood cell
count 8.1, hematocrit 33.8, platelets 224,000, MCV 87.
Chemistries within normal limits.  INR 1.6.

Chest x-ray showed a right middle lobe and right lower lobe
opacity.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  HYPOXIA:  The patient's hypoxia was
felt to be multifactorial given the patient's history of
congestive heart failure, COPD, recent rapid atrial
fibrillation, and multilobar MRSA pneumonia.  For the
patient's COPD, he was continued on nebulizer treatments.  He
had completed a full course of steroids at [**Hospital3 **]
prior to transfer and thus the patient was not started on IV
steroid therapy.  It was felt that he was not in acute flare
during his ICU course.

For the patient's congestive heart failure, he was gently
diuresed in the setting of his aortic stenosis.  An
echocardiogram was obtained which showed an ejection fraction
of greater than 55%, pulmonary artery pressure of 20 mmHg,
mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy, mild 1+ aortic
regurgitation, and moderate aortic stenosis with mild
dilation of the ascending aorta.  The patient's oxygen
requirement decreased with continued diuresis.  The patient
was very responsive to small doses of IV Lasix and was
negative daily.  The patient was also continued on treatment
of his multilobar pneumonia with IV vancomycin at 1 gram q.
12.  The patient also had a CAT scan to follow-up on history
of lung mass and asbestos exposure.  CAT scan showed no
pleural mass but loculated fluid in the minor fissure that is
somewhat mass-like in appearance.  There were emphysematous
changes.  There was also bilateral air space opacities in the
mid lower lungs, right greater than left with some nodular
appearance.  There were multiple sites of mediastinal
lymphadenopathy and bilateral calcified plaques consistent
with asbestos exposure.  A follow-up CAT scan in three months
is recommended.  An abdominal aortic aneurysm was also noted
infrarenally at 3.7 cm.

The patient's hypoxia continued to improve and on the day of
transfer to the floor, he was on [**4-27**] liters of nasal cannula
with saturations greater than 93%.

2.  METHICILLIN-RESISTANT STAPHYLOCOCCUS AUREUS PNEUMONIA:
The patient began vancomycin therapy at approximately [**2151-4-12**], however, it is difficult to decipher in the
transfer summary from [**Hospital3 **].  It was decided that
the patient would have a 14 day course of IV antibiotics and
thus a request for a PICC line was placed prior to transfer
to the floor.  The patient remained afebrile during this
admission and his white count was within normal limits as
well.  His sputum cultures were repeatedly contaminated and
his blood cultures are no growth to date.

3.  QUESTIONABLE RIGHT LOWER LOBE MASS:  There was no mass
seen on chest CT here, however, there was lymphadenopathy
that could be consistent with infectious reaction.  However,
it was felt that lymphadenopathy should be followed-up in
three months with a CAT scan.

4.  PAROXYSMAL ATRIAL FIBRILLATION:  The patient's weight was
well controlled during his admission until [**2151-4-17**]
when he went into atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular
response to the 120s.  His hypoxia slightly worsened at this
time and thus a Diltiazem drip was started.  The patient had
a good response to this and was transitioned quickly to p.o.
Diltiazem with slow titration upwards.  At the time of floor
transfer, he is currently on Diltiazem 60 mg p.o. q.i.d.  It
was thought that a calcium channel blocker would be a better
choice in this patient with COPD as opposed to metoprolol.
The patient was Coumadin loaded at [**Hospital3 **].  However,
this was stopped upon admission to the [**Hospital1 18**] in case
procedures were necessary.

The patient was started on a heparin drip and Coumadin was
held during his ICU course with exception of one dose on the
evening prior to transfer.  The patient was loaded with
Amiodarone at the outside hospital and his dose was decreased
in the Intensive Care Unit to 200 mg q.d.  The patient's
rhythm oscillated between normal sinus as well as
rate-controlled atrial fibrillation on day prior to floor
transfer.  It is uncertain at this time whether Amiodarone
will still be indicated in this patient.  These issues will
be addressed in the patient's floor course.

The patient's echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of
greater than 55% with no marked left atrial dilation.  Please
see above for more details on echocardiogram report.