Admission Date:  [**2136-12-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2137-1-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2077-9-6**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Vascular

ADDENDUM:  This is an Addendum to the initial Discharge
Summary which was interrupted (work #[**Numeric Identifier 26282**]).

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE (CONTINUED):  The patient
was admitted to the Vascular Service.  He was hydrated with
intravenous fluids in anticipation for an arteriogram, and
Mucomyst protocol was begun for his creatinine of greater
than 1.5.

The patient was begun vancomycin, levofloxacin, Flagyl
empirically and underwent vein mapping of the upper
extremities to determine the adequacy of conduit.  A Duplex
was done of graft which showed a patent graft femoral
dorsalis pedis on the right.  The patient had both right and
left lesser saphenous veins, and greater saphenous veins were
absent.  Arm veins (both basilic and cephalic) were patent.

The patient underwent an arteriogram on [**2136-12-31**]
which demonstrated a patent aorta and bilateral common
external and internal iliac arteries.  The right lower leg
runoff showed patent common femoral artery, superficial
femoral artery, and profunda femoris.  There was a patent
popliteal with mild (less than 50%) stenosis of the
above-knee popliteal just above the joint.  There were
extremely calcified tibial vessels.  The patient had a patent
anterior tibial and a patent tibial peroneal trunk.  There
was a focal occlusion at the origin of the peroneal which
reconstructed.  There was an occlusion at the origin of the
posterior tibialis with a diseased vessel distally.  The
anterior tibial and posterior tibialis were occluded.  The
anterior tibial reconstructed and occluded at the ankle.  The
peroneal was with multiple areas of mild stenosis.  The
dorsalis pedis was calcified which reconstructed at the ankle
and bifurcated into the tarsals.

Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] (a cardiologist) evaluated the patient for
perioperative risk assessment.  The patient underwent a
Persantine MIBI which demonstrated the patient's stress
portion of the Persantine MIBI was negative for
electrocardiogram or anginal symptoms.  The nuclear portion
demonstrated the ventricular cavity was dilated both in
stress and at rest.  Both stress and resting images showed no
definite perfusion defects.  The ejection fraction was
calculated at 37%.  There was severe global hypokinesis.

The patient was assessed as a class III for surgery; at an
increased risk, but there was no obvious ischemia on the
Persantine MIBI, and the patient was considered safe to
proceed with surgery but to continue all of his current
medications.

On [**2137-1-2**] the patient underwent a left below-knee
popliteal to dorsalis pedis bypass with reversed lesser
saphenous vein.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.
The patient required 200 cc of packed red blood cells
intraoperatively.  The patient was transferred to the
Postanesthesia Care Unit intubated.

Postoperatively, there were no significant electrocardiogram
changes.  An echocardiogram was done which revealed no
significant effusions or evidence of tamponade; although
there was diminished left ventricular function, but this was
unchanged from a preoperative echocardiogram, and the right
ventricle did not appear dilated and was normal.

Intraoperatively, the patient coded.  The patient suffered a
transient ischemic attack.  Epinephrine was given and
continued resuscitation with return of a bounding pulse with
good normalization of his end-tidal carbon dioxide.  Total
cardiopulmonary resuscitation times was estimated to be one
minute.

The patient was transferred with a systolic blood pressure of
200/110 and a heart rate of 120.  The pulmonary artery
systolic pressure had been 60 to 80.  It was noted to be 100.
Esmolol 20 mg times two and nitroglycerin 120 mcg doses
reduced the heart rate and blood pressure with a resultant
heart rate of 90 and a systolic blood pressure of 170/80;
respectively.  The patient was transported to the
Postanesthesia Care Unit intubated.  He required dopamine
during transport.

On arrival to the Postanesthesia Care Unit, vital signs were
recorded.  The arterial line showed a blood pressure of
125/55, heart rate 89, and the oxygen saturation was on 100%
positive airway pressure was 6925, central venous pressure
was 11.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 1112**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 2604**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 6223**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1479**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2137-1-11**]  07:31
T:  [**2137-1-11**]  07:41
JOB#:  [**Job Number 26392**]
