Date of Birth:   [**2064-1-19**]       Sex:  F

Service:

The patient denies smoking, alcohol or intravenous drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Remarkable for coronary artery disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission vital signs revealed
temperature 97 degrees heartrate of 74, blood pressure
149/54, respiratory rate 16 and the patient was sating at 99%
patient was alert and awake in no acute distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat, pupils equally round and
reactive to light.  Sclera are anicteric, with an nasogastric
tube noting dried blood in the tubing.  Chest examination was
notable for bibasilar rales, no wheezes.  Cardiovascular
system, S1 and S2, irregular rate and rhythm with III/VI
decrescendo systolic ejection murmur, no rubs and no gallops.
Abdomen, soft, obese, nontender, nondistended, normal bowel
sounds in all four quadrants.  No organomegaly.  Extremities,
no clubbing, no cyanosis and no edema.  +2 Dorsalis pedis
pulses and warm extremities.  Neurological examination, the
patient was alert and oriented times three and grossly
intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory studies on admission revealed
sodium 137, potassium 4.7, chloride 106, bicarbonate 19, BUN
46, creatinine 1.6, glucose of 308, white blood cell count
was 7.9, hematocrit 28.2, platelets 84 and MCV 89 with a
differential in the complete blood count revealing
neutrophils 82%, no bands, lymphocytes 10, monocytes 4 and
eosinophils 3.  Cholesterol panel revealed a total
cholesterol of 144, HDL 45, and LDL 80 and triglycerides at
99.  An electrocardiogram at admission to [**Hospital 26200**]
Hospital on [**7-18**], revealed sinus bradycardia with a 2:1
second degree heartblock, normal axis, prolonged PR,
prolonged QRS, QT:  Right bundle branch block, ST depressions
in AV1, AVL and leads V2 to V5 with T wave inversions.
Subsequent electrocardiograms revealed normal sinus rhythm
with improvement in ST depressions and continued depressions
in V2, V3, AV1 and AVL.  Upon admission at [**Hospital6 1760**] electrocardiogram showed
continued ST segment depressions in leads 1, AVL, V2 to VF,
and inverted T waves in 1 through V5 with painfree,
electrocardiogram revealed improvement of these changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to [**Hospital6 1760**] for impending cardiac
catheterization.

1.  Cardiovascular - A.  Coronary artery disease, the patient
was continued on Aspirin and Metoprolol at 12.5, however, her
ACE inhibitor was held secondary to the recent elevation in
her creatinine.  Heparin and Integrilin drips were also held
secondary to her gastrointestinal bleed and low platelets.
Plavix was held secondary to low platelets as well.  The
patient was given sublingual nitroglycerin for pain.  Cardiac
catheterization on hospital day #2 revealed the following
findings - 1.  Hemodynamics:  There was mild gradient across
the aortic valve; severely elevated left ventricular end
diastolic pressures.  Coronary angiography revealed the
following - Right dominant system with left main coronary
artery a small caliber, left anterior descending artery that
was occluded.  This was small caliber left anterior
descending filled by left internal mammary artery.  Left
circumflex:  Occluded after tiny first obtuse marginal,
distal obtuse marginal filled by saphenous vein graft.  Right
coronary artery:  Tiny and mid occluded, posterior descending
artery filled by saphenous vein graft.  Saphenous vein graft
to obtuse marginal and diagonal:  Patent, prior stent in this
graft.  Saphenous vein graft to posterior descending artery:
Patent mild tapering origin.  Left internal mammary artery to
left anterior descending, patent.  Given these findings no
intervention during [**Hospital1 **] time with recommendation of
medical treatment including therapy to reduce elevated
filling pressures.  Therefore the patient was started on
calcium channel blocker Norvasc 5 mg p.o. q.d. and increased
to 7.5 mg p.o. q.d. by time of discharge.  The patient was
also continued on Hydralazine at 25 mg p.o. q.i.d.  The
patient continued to complain of some chest discomfort upon
awakening the first two days following the day of admission
and was continued on a Nitroglycerin drip until [**2132-7-26**].  At that time the patient became chest pain/arm pain
free throughout the remainder of her hospital stay and is
currently stable on her current cardiac regimen, and is
asymptomatic.

B.  Rhythm - Of note, the patient was noted to have runs of
Wenckebach's block on her rhythm strip.  The patient remains
to have occasional Wenckebach's block, the patient is symptom
free throughout her hospital stay and given the benign nature
of this type of A-V nodal block no intervention is needed at
this time.

2.  Pulmonary - Upon initial examination the patient was
noted to have bibasilar rales on examination.  This is
believed to be secondary to some fluid overload in the
context of severe diastolic dysfunction, with recent history
of acute renal failure.  On the day of admission the patient
was given 80 mg of Lasix intravenously times one.  The
patient had good response to this diuresis and remained to be
oxygenating well.  Of note, the patient also has a history of
asthma.  Her beta agonist medication was held initially on
examination given her recent cardiac event and pending
catheterization.  Throughout the hospital stay as the patient
was restarted on nebulizers as needed and remained
and upon discharge the patient remains free of any complaints
of any of her asthma symptoms.

3.  Gastrointestinal - The patient was status post
hematemesis with an nasogastric tube upon admission with
suspected etiology secondary to hypercricoid state and recent
nausea and vomiting in the setting of diabetic ketoacidosis.
The patient's hematocrits were followed throughout her
hospital course and was transfused one unit of packed red
blood cells on hospital day #3.  Hematocrits were followed
throughout the remainder of the hospital stay and remained
stable at discharge.

4.  Hematology - Thrombocytopenia, of note the patient had a
platelet level of 81 on day #2 at admission, believed
secondary to be due to recent heparin use.  Platelets were
run throughout the hospital stay and remained stabilized and
began to increase throughout the remainder of the hospital
stay and had increased to a level of 159 two days prior to
discharge.  As a result basically it is thought the patient
can be restarted on Plavix upon discharge.

5.  Renal - The patient's creatinine increased to 2.1 on
hospital day #2 status post catheterization, and her
creatinine continued to elevate to a level of 4.3 on hospital
day #7.  Urine dip stick was negative except for notable
blood believed secondary to trauma to Foley catheter, and
urine sediment was noted for many red blood cells, many
elastocasts with occasional granular casts.  Urine lytes were
notable for a prerenal state.  Given the patient's fluid
status and recent cardiac catheterization it is believed that
this acute renal failure was consistent with a contrast
nephropathy.  The patient's intakes and outputs were followed
throughout the hospital stay with decreased intercreatinine
starting at two days prior to admission.  Upon discharge the
patient's creatinine remains at a level of about 3 and we
will continue to have her creatinine and electrolytes
checked, replaced and removed as needed at rehabilitation.
Of note, throughout this time the patient remains
symptom-free with no paresthesias, no pruritus, no mental
status changes, and the patient was also started on PhosLo
throughout her hospital stay.

6.  Endocrinology - The patient with a history of insulin
dependent diabetes mellitus.  The patient was started on NPH
insulin sliding scale regimen as needed, and her sugars were
difficult to control early throughout the course of her
hospital stay.  With some adjustment of her insulin
requirements, her glucose levels improved and she will be
discharged on her outpatient regimen and including a sliding
scale of q.i.d. finger sticks at the time of discharge.  The
patient had increased urine output throughout the last three
days prior to discharge.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Troponin