Admission Date:  [**2118-12-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2119-1-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2052-6-27**]       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypothermia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
gentleman who was found outside his home with a core
temperature of 82 degrees.

He was transferred to the [**Hospital1 188**] Emergency Department for further resuscitation.  The
patient was initially treated in the Trauma Bay.  A three-way
bladder irrigation system was set up.  A left chest tube was
placed, and a nasogastric tube was placed.  The nasogastric
tube, chest tube, and three-way bladder irrigation system was
used to lavage warm water in order to rewarm the patient.
During the patient's resuscitation, he became agitated and he
was intubated for airway protection.   During the placement
of the three-way catheter there was concern of a false
passage.

Urology was called to evaluate the situation.  They performed
a bedside ureterocystoscope which showed two to three false
passages.  The urethralcatheter was left in place, and the
Foley was placed to gravity.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Ethanol abuse.
2.  History of poor nutrition.
3.  Questionable baseline dementia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Initial physical
examination revealed the patient's temperature was 29.9
Celsius, his pulse was 100, his blood pressure was 107/67,
his heart rate was 116, his respiratory rate was 26, and no
oxygen saturations recorded on 6 liters by face mask.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  The lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  There was
questionable cyanosis.  There was no edema.  The pupils were
equal and reactive.  The extraocular muscles were intact.
The tympanic membranes were clear.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION: The patient's
initial hematocrit was 27.  Coagulations revealed his
prothrombin time was 13, his partial thromboplastin time was
28, and his INR was 1.2.  Initial arterial blood gas was
7.3/16/347/8 and -15.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted
to the Trauma Service with the initial diagnosis of
hypothermia.

After transfer to the Intensive Care Unit, the patient was
noted to have a rigid and distended abdomen with the findings
of a large amount of ascites/free fluid within in the
intraperitoneal cavity and free air within the space of
Retzius and/or intraperitoneal.  It was decided the patient
would go to the operating room for an exploratory laparotomy.

In the operating room, the bowel was noted to be normal.  The
fluid was clear with no signs of pus, succus, and/or blood.
Urology was consulted for the evaluation of a possible
bladder injury.  A dye study and retrograde cystogram were
performed which did not show any signs of extravasation
within the peritoneum and/or retroperitoneal space.  The
abdomen was left opened.  The patient was transferred back to
the Intensive Care Unit in stable condition.

On hospital day four, the patient was brought back to the
operating room and had an exploratory laparotomy and closure
of his abdominal wall.  The patient's metabolic acidosis
improved over time.  The patient's bladder pressure following
the abdominal closure was 8 cm of water.

The Podiatry Service was also consulted at this time for
debridement of a keratotic lesion on his left foot which was
done without complications.  At the end of the removal of the
keratotic lesion, Podiatry signed off.

The patient was started on total parenteral nutrition for
nutrition while his bowel function returned.  The patient
also had a bronchoscopy to evaluate his pulmonary function
which showed purulent secretions from the left lower lobe.  A
bronchoalveolar lavage was performed.

On [**12-20**], a chest tube was placed in the right chest to
relieve an increasing effusion.  The procedure was done under
sterile technique without complications.

Throughout the patient's hospitalization, he intermittently
dropped his PO2 into the 60 to 40 range.  The patient had a
computed tomography angiogram which was negative and multiple
chest x-rays which showed a diffuse interstitial pattern
versus pneumonia.  The patient was started on Zosyn as the
bronchoscopy washings were growing gram-negative rods.

On postoperative days seven and eight, the patient continued
to improve his respiratory status.  The patient was
transfused several units of packed red blood cells for a
hematocrit of less than 30.  On postoperative day eight, the
patient was extubated.

The patient was then transferred to the floor and had a
bedside swallow evaluation which concluded that the patient
should remain nothing by mouth at this time with an
nasogastric tube for nutrition.  On the floor, the patient
became tachypneic and required suctioning, chest physical
therapy, and face mask.  The patient's oxygen saturations
dropped into the 80s with a nonrebreather.

At this time, the patient was transferred to the Intensive
Care Unit for further monitoring and possible intubation.  An
arterial line was placed at this time.  The patient was given
Ativan for agitation.  He was continued on a pulmonary toilet
as well as chest physical therapy.  Tube feeds were on hold.
Intravenous fluids were started.  A chest x-ray showed a
diffuse interstitial pattern; acute respiratory distress
syndrome versus pneumonia.  Shortly after transfer to the
Intensive Care Unit, the patient was intubated.  During that
time, the patient spiked a temperature and was pan-cultured.
His white blood cell count also went from 8 to 15.  It was
thought that the patient may have aspirated and/or had a
continuing process from his initial insult.  At that time,
the patient was evaluated for tuberculosis and also for
Legionella.  The tuberculosis was negative.  The Legionella
was still pending at the time of this dictation.  The patient
was also started on Levophed for presumed systemic
inflammatory response syndrome versus sepsis.

The patient's tachycardia which started prior to his
Intensive Care Unit admission (in the 130 range) continued.
It did not respond to fluid boluses or sedation but did
respond to diltiazem as a rate control [**Doctor Last Name 360**].  The patient
was ruled out for a myocardial infarction.  An
electrocardiogram was normal.  His troponin was less than
0.03.

Also, with a question of line sepsis, the patient's central
line was removed and a new pulmonary artery catheter line was
placed with a new site.  The patient was started on broad
spectrum antibiotics; particularly vancomycin 1000 mg and
Zosyn 4.5 mg three times per day.

During the patient's Intensive Care Unit stay, he required
Levophed for blood pressure control to keep his mean above
60.  He also remained tachycardic which then responded to
propofol and/or diltiazem.  The patient's urine output during
the entire time remained brisk.  Urine electrolytes and
sodium electrolytes were not consistent with diabetes
insipidus.  During this time, the patient was also checked
for adrenal insufficiency and pheochromocytoma; both of which
were within the normal range.  The patient had a repeat
echocardiogram done by the anesthesia cardiologist which
showed no valvular dysfunction and a normal ejection
fraction.  The patient was continued on broad spectrum
antibiotics.  His respiratory function improved over the next
several days.

On [**12-29**], the Swan-Ganz catheter was changed to a triple
lumen catheter.  The patient's propofol was weaned.  He
remained tachycardic in the 100 to 120 range.  As his
Levophed was also weaned, his mean reached a plateau of
between 55 and 60 range.

On [**1-1**], a Medical Intensive Care Unit consultation was
obtained to evaluate his tachycardia, hypotension, and brisk
urine output as all tests had been negative.

On [**1-2**], the patient was extubated without incident.
The patient remained extubated and continued to do well.
During this time, the patient was continued on tube feeds.
After the patient was to goal with the tube feeds, he had an
increased amount of