Admission Date:  [**2163-4-8**]       Discharge Date:  [**2163-5-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2087-12-30**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Dyspnea.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 75-year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
multiple myocardial infarctions in the past, status post
right nephroureterectomy on [**2163-3-7**] for a transitional
cell carcinoma, who presented on the day of admission to
[**Hospital3 **] with worsening lower extremity edema and
exertional dyspnea since discharge.

The patient awoke on the morning of admission with acute
dyspnea and presented to [**Hospital3 **] where his
electrocardiogram revealed new lateral ST depressions of 2 mm
in V5 through V6 which was initially read as left ventricular
hypertrophy with strain, and he had an initial creatine
kinase of 40 with a negative troponin, but an oxygen
saturation of 85% on room air.  The patient was given
Lasix 120 mg intravenously, nitroglycerin, morphine sulfate,
given 100% nonrebreather, and his oxygen saturation improved
to 100%.  He was diuresed and sent to the [**Hospital1 346**].

On review of the patient's history, he admits to having
frequent bologna sandwiches and can soups and was unaware of
their sodium content.

At [**Hospital1 69**], the patient had a
blood pressure of 130/54, pulse of 72, respiratory rate
of 26, and an oxygen saturation of 100% on 50% Venturi mask
with electrocardiograms that revealed 1-mm ST depressions in
V5 through V6.

The patient was admitted to the C-MED Service, and several
hours later suffered acute worsening dyspnea with 5/10 chest
pain, and diaphoresis, and an electrocardiogram that showed
ST depressions in II and F as well as V4 through V5, with a
rate of 120, and a blood pressure of 150/90.  The patient was
given intravenous nitroglycerin, morphine, Lasix, and
heparin.

He was taken to the catheterization laboratory where he had a
pulmonary artery pressure of 62/30 and wedge of 35.  He was
found to have a left main coronary artery with a 40% distal
lesion, left anterior descending artery with a 50% proximal
lesion, left circumflex with a 50% middle lesion, second
obtuse marginal and third obtuse marginal were totally
occluded, right coronary artery with a 70% proximal lesion.
An echocardiogram revealed global hypokinesis, left
ventricular ejection fraction of 20%, and mild-to-moderate
mitral regurgitation.

The patient was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit for
observation, diuresis, and afterload reduction in the setting
of 3-vessel disease and left ventricular dysfunction.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction in [**2149**], as well as a non-Q-wave myocardial
infarction in [**2159**].
 2.  First-degree anterior vesicular block.
 3.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction that
was markedly depressed by not quantified on a recent outside
hospital echocardiogram.
 4.  History of prostate cancer.
 5.  History of colon cancer, status post right
hemicolectomy.
 6.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
 7.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease without a history
of intubation or hospitalizations.
 8.  Hypertension.
 9.  Peripheral vascular disease, status post left
femoral-popliteal in [**2155**] with known carotid artery disease
with a right internal carotid artery of 80%.
10.  Transitional cell bladder cancer, status post right
nephroureterectomy on [**2163-3-7**].
11.  Postoperative confusion.
12.  Chronic renal insufficiency (with a bowel sounds
creatinine of 2 to 2.5).
13.  Anemia of chronic disease.

ALLERGIES:  IODINE which causes anaphylaxis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., NPH
15 units subcutaneous q.12h., clonidine 0.15 mg p.o. q.o.d.
alternating with 0.3 mg p.o. q.o.d., allopurinol 100 mg p.o.
q.d., Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d., enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg
p.o. q.d., Lasix 120 mg p.o. q.d., multivitamin,
trazodone 25 mg p.o. q.d., Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a 100-pack-year smoking
history.  He quit smoking 14 years ago.  The patient is
married.  His wife is his primary caretaker.  His health care
proxy is his daughter, [**Name (NI) 1494**].  [**Name2 (NI) **] has four daughters and
one son.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's
temperature was 97.4, pulse of 94, blood pressure of 140/69,
respiratory rate of 21, 100% on 100% nonrebreather.  On
general examination, the patient was a pleasant elderly man
in mild respiratory distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination revealed pupils were equally round and
reactive to light and an oropharynx was that clear and moist.
Neck examination revealed elevated jugular venous pressure to
10 cm of water.  Chest examination revealed crackles up to
one-third of the lung fields bilaterally.  The patient had
fair movement.  Cardiovascular examination revealed distant
heart sounds, a regular rate and rhythm.  No third heart
sound or fourth heart sound appreciated, and a soft 3/6
systolic blowing murmur heard at the left lower sternal
border radiating to the apex.  Abdominal examination revealed
no hepatosplenomegaly, normal bowel sounds, with a nontender
and nondistended abdomen.  Extremity examination revealed 2+
edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  The patient had a
white blood cell count of 10.5, hematocrit of 25.3, platelets
of 195.  The patient's creatinine was 2.5.  The patient's
creatine kinase was 39 with a troponin of 0.6.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   An echocardiogram status post
catheterization revealed the patient had an ejection fraction
of 15% to 20%, severe global left ventricular hypokinesis,
and a normal right ventricle.  There was 2+ mitral
regurgitation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 75-year-old male with a
history of diabetes, coronary artery disease, congestive
heart failure, and chronic renal insufficiency who presented
with a congestive heart failure exacerbation.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  From a coronary artery disease
standpoint, the patient had 3-vessel disease with 40% left
main lesion, 50% left anterior descending artery lesion, a
40% first diagonal lesion, a circumflex lesion with a 60% to
70% midvessel stenosis, a 70% proximal right coronary artery
lesion, and a totally occluded first obtuse marginal.  No
intervention was performed on the patient's first
catheterization.

Within 48 hours of the patient being in the Coronary Care
Unit, the patient developed an episode of bradycardia,
hypotension, and hypoxic arrest requiring intubation and the
use of pressors.  In this setting, the question arose of
possible ischemic mitral regurgitation in addition to viable
myocardial compromise by rate-related ischemia.

The patient was taken to cardiac catheterization four days
later, at which point he received stents to his right
coronary artery and first obtuse marginal.  He was maintained
on aspirin and Plavix.

From a myocardium standpoint, the patient had a right heart
catheterization on presentation which showed elevated
left-sided filling pressures with a mean pulmonary capillary
wedge pressure of 37 mmHg.  The patient initially required
Levophed and dopamine which was able to be weaned off within
the first 24 hours after intubation.  The patient was then
started on afterload reduction with hydralazine and then
nitrates.

From a rhythm standpoint, the patient presented in normal
sinus rhythm but then developed intermittent Wenckebach until
nine days into the admission when the patient developed
atrial flutter without rapid ventricular response.  The
patient was anticoagulated and chemically cardioverted with
ibutilide.

The patient was eventually stabilized on a heart failure
regimen that included hydralazine and Isordil.

2.  PULMONARY:  From a pulmonary standpoint, the patient was
initially intubated for hypoxic respiratory failure secondary
to flash pulmonary edema in the setting of known poor
systolic function.  The patient also had renal insufficiency
in the setting of recent right nephroureterectomy.  The
patient was intubated for progressive hypoxia.  He was
started on continuous venovenous hemofiltration, and then the
patient's clinical status improved