Admission Date:  [**2124-1-1**]     Discharge Date:  [**2124-1-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2047-12-1**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 76 year old lady who
only speaks Russian.  She is status post small bowel
resection for incarcerated ventral hernia repair about three
years ago and now returned to the Emergency Room for symptoms
of nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain for approximately 12
hours of duration.  She denied fevers, chills.  She had a
bowel movement the day before.  She described pain as colicky
and located at the left abdominal lower quadrant and radiates
sometimes in the middle. She also reported chest pain on
exertion, requiring sublingual nitroglycerin.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery
disease, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  As aforementioned, ventral hernia
repair, and status post mastectomy, as well as knee surgery.
She denied history of allergic reaction to medications.

HOME MEDICATIONS:
Lipitor 20 q. day.
Atenolol 50 mg twice a day.
Baby aspirin.
Sublingual nitroglycerin as needed.
Cozaar 50 mg q. day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Elderly woman in no acute distress.
She is afebrile with temperature of 98.3; heart rate of 68;
blood pressure 183/87; she is breathing on room air, 16 times
per minute.  Oxygen saturation is 96%.  She is alert and
oriented with family. Chest is clear bilaterally to
auscultation.  Heart has a regular rate and rhythm.  The
abdomen is obese, nondistended but tender, especially on the
left side, greater than the right side.  There is no hernia.
There is no peritoneal sign.  Rectal examination showed
normal tone and guaiac negative by Emergency Room
examination.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count of 11.8; hematocrit
of 37.1 and platelets of 246.  Sodium 137; potassium 4.7;
chloride 99; bicarbonate 29; BUN 25; creatinine of 1.0 and
blood sugar level of 163.

A CAT scan of the abdomen showed high grade small bowel
obstruction with transition in prior surgical area. By
report, there is an echocardiogram done on [**2122-1-7**] which
showed an ejection fraction of greater than 80% and left
ventricular hypertrophy and no mitral regurgitation or aortic
stenosis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was diagnosed with a small
bowel obstruction, requiring emergency surgery.  A
preoperative cardiology consult was obtained, given high and
multiple risks factors of coronary artery disease.  It was
suggested that perioperative treatment with betablocker be
initiated and a postoperative electrocardiogram with cardiac
enzymes is also recommended.

The patient was brought to the operating room for emergency
laparotomy, exploratory laparotomy.  Intraoperatively, it was
found that the small bowel obstruction occurred at the
previous anastomosis site which is subsequently resected.
There is minimal amount of blood loss.  The patient received
2,700 cc of Crystalloid during the operation.  She was
transferred to the Post Anesthesia Care Unit in fair
condition.

Postoperatively, the patient had cardiac enzyme work-up with
CK of 150 to 282; CK MB of 8; the second set is 9 and
treponon is less than 0.3.  The patient was treated with
betablocker perioperatively as suggested by the cardiology
service; however, she displayed episodes of agitation and
wide complex tachycardia, dyspnea with question of pulmonary
edema and hypertension with decreased oxygen saturation.
Because of the requirement of closed monitoring, she was
transferred to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit
postoperatively for closer monitor and for fluid management
and for respiratory care.

She received Kefzol and Flagyl empirically for prophylaxis
which was subsequently discontinued on postoperative day
number two.  She is also requiring aggressive pain control
regimen.  Essentially, her Intensive Care Unit course was
uneventful.  She was able to wean off high requirement of
oxygen and subsequently was transferred to the regular floor
on [**2123-1-5**] where she remained comfortable and receiving
respiratory care in terms of PT and instructions of coughing
with incentive spirometry.

Her pain is well controlled, although because of her poor
functionality, it was slow in terms of her recovery.
Therefore, although she was taking good amount of pain
control pills, she was thought to be needed to be discharged
to a rehabilitation facility for a short period of
rehabilitation before going home.


DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Small bowel obstruction, status post exploratory laparotomy.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To rehabilitation facility.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
She will take all her prior home medications with Percocet
for pain control.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:
Stable.








                          [**Name6 (MD) 843**] [**Name8 (MD) 844**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 845**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info **]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2124-1-7**]  03:41
T:  [**2124-1-7**]  17:28
JOB#:  [**Job Number 25578**]
