Admission Date: [**2179-5-13**]        Discharge Date: [**2179-6-17**]

Date of Birth:  [**2108-9-18**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Elevated LFTs and diarrhea.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 70-year-old
male, status post orthotopic liver transplant in [**2178-12-24**], complicated by preservation injury requiring admission,
now with increased LFTs and diarrhea. Had an ERCP that
demonstrated preservation injury. Admitted now with
hypotension, systolic BPs in the 70s noted in the transplant
office.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  ETOH cirrhosis, DM type 2,
hypertension, CAD, GERD, anemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Orthotopic liver transplant [**2178-12-24**], CABG [**2162**], inguinal hernia repair.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Alcohol abuse in the past, none currently.
Tobacco: None in past history.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Not addressed.

MEDS AT HOME:  Valcyte 900 mg p.o. once daily, Protonix 40 mg
once daily, ursodiol 300 mg t.i.d., Lopressor 37.5 mg b.i.d.,
Prograf 1.5 mg p.o. b.i.d., CellCept [**Pager number **] mg p.o. t.i.d.,
pentamidine 300 mg inhalation q. month, NPH insulin 30 units
SC q. a.m.

LABS ON ADMISSION:  White count 7, hematocrit 34.5, platelet
count 188, coags within normal limits, blood sugar 27, sodium
142, potassium 3.8, chloride 110, CO2 19, BUN 42.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, patient was alert and
oriented, no acute distress. VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 96.3,
heart rate 54, respiratory rate 18, 100% o room air, BP
112/54. Lungs were clear bilaterally. COR: Regular rate,
rhythm. Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended, Roux tube site
no erythema. Peripherally 1+ edema bilaterally. Nonfocal
neuro exam.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was given D50 with elevation of
blood sugar. Started on an IV of D5-1/2NS at 60. He was
started on vancomycin and Unasyn. Chest x-ray on admission
demonstrated heart size within the upper range of normal with
a tortuous aorta. There were linear areas of opacity at the
left lung base with interval improvement in the area compared
to the previous study, with residual small left pleural
effusion. The left lower lobe opacities were felt to be
related to atelectasis. An EKG demonstrated sinus bradycardia
with a rate of 52, with AV conduction delay. Q-waves were
noted in leads III and AVF, felt to be possibly related to a
prior inferior myocardial infarction.

There was concern for cholangitis. Infectious disease was
consulted and recommended levofloxacin and Flagyl, changed to
Zosyn 4.5 grams IV q. 6, with continuation of vanco. Blood
cultures on admission were subsequently found to be negative.
Bile culture demonstrated Citrobacter pansensitive,
Enterococcus pansensitive and nonfermenter, resistant to
Bactrim other pansensitive. Stool cultures were sent off.
These were negative for C. diff. A CMV viral load was done.
This was not detected. He was placed on Flagyl for concerns
for C. diff. C. diffs were negative x3. He continued on Zosyn
and vancomycin while awaiting final cultures.

He was started on TPN for malnutrition. Patient was noted to
be extremely jaundice with an alkaline phosphatase of 154, T-
bilirubin of 4.4, and an INR of 1.0. Baseline creatinine was
0.9. Hematocrit was stable. He had generalized edema. His
PTCA drained. A CT of his abdomen was done with nonionic
contrast. This demonstrated decreased size of the subcapsular
hepatic hematomas. There were new intrahepatic biliary
dilatations noted predominantly in the left lobe of the
liver. Diffuse colon wall thickening was noted consistent
with colitis. There was concern for C. diff, and there was
increased right pleural effusion and increased ascites.

His creatinine started to increase on hospital day 4 to 2.7
from baseline of 2. His Prograf was adjusted. His Prograf
level was 11, and IV fluid was decreased. A nephrology
consult was obtained, and it was felt that the patient had
ATN seen on a urinalysis secondary to hypotension, in
addition to IV contrast for the CT, despite prophylaxis with
IV bicarbonate and p.o. Mucomyst. He underwent a
cholangiogram to assess tube placement. Compared to the
cholangiogram performed on [**4-15**], the tip of the T-tube
was lower than the prior location, but still located in the
common bile duct. There was no evidence of bile leak or
stricture. A renal ultrasound was done to evaluate elevated
creatinine. There was no evidence of hydronephrosis in either
kidney. A 2-cm cyst in the lower pole of the right kidney was
noted, and there was a small amount of ascites noted. The
patient underwent central line placement with tip in the
correct position. After much consideration, the patient was
relisted for retransplantation.

He was taken to the OR on [**2179-5-21**] by Dr. [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initial (NamePattern1) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], and he underwent a liver transplant from a diseased
donor liver transplant piggyback, underwent a donor common
hepatic artery to recipient proper hepatic artery, portal
vein-to-portal-vein anastomosis, a Roux-en-Y
hepaticojejunostomy and splenectomy. Assistant surgeon was
Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 816**]. Please see operative report. Patient was
intubated and transferred to the SICU immediately postop. He
received induction immunosuppression intraop with Solu-Medrol
500 mg IV, CellCept 1 gram IV. Postoperatively, he remained
in the ICU and gradually was weaned from the vent. His
immunosuppression was titrated per protocol. His LFTs started
to trend downward. A postop liver duplex was done that
demonstrated normal Doppler study, small fluid collection
adjacent to the right posterior aspect of the liver.
Pathology report from the liver biopsy from the recipient
demonstrated extensive large bile duct necrosis with marked
bile duct proliferation with associated neutrophils. The
hepatic artery was with thrombus. There was negative portal
vein. There was marked cholestasis, and trichrome and iron
stains were evaluated. Please see path report for further
details.

Patient required frequent suctioning for thick yellow sputum.
O2 sats remained in the 98-100% range. Patient was in first
degree AV block. He required packed red blood cells for
hematocrits of 26. On [**2179-5-28**], he was noted to have a
right neck swelling and a question of cellulitis. An
ultrasound was done. This demonstrated thrombus within the
right internal jugular vein. The right subclavian vein
appeared patent. On [**5-28**], he underwent a T-tube
cholangiogram that demonstrated no leak, or obstruction, or
intrahepatic biliary dilatation. There was free contrast
passage into the small bowel loops. Of note, the patient did
receive a cardiology consult for AV block. Recommendations
included continuation of beta blockers.

Gradually, LFTs trended down with an AST of 24, ALT of 32,
alkaline phosphatase of 154, and a T-bili of 4.4. Creatinine
decreased to 1.1. Hematocrit was stable. He continued on tube
feedings, as he failed a swallow eval at bedside. He required
Lasix for diuresis for fluid retention. ATN was resolving.
His creatinine trended down to 1.4. He required an insulin
drip postoperatively for hyperglycemia.

He was transferred to the medical surgical unit on postop day
11, on [**2179-6-1**], and vital signs were stable. Bedside
swallow eval was done again. Patient failed the swallow eval.
He continued on his postpyloric feeding tube feedings.
Physical therapy followed him each day. His Foley catheter
was removed, and his feeding tube was capped. His LFTs
continued to improve. Sodium increased to 140. He received
free water via his postpyloric feeding tube for a free water
deficit. Sodium continued to stay elevated around 140-145.
His mental status was noted to be confused with inaudible
speech at times. Patient was mumbling. His potassium was 5.1.
This was treated with insulin, D50 and calcium gluconate per
IV with a repeat potassium 4.6. Respiratory status was of
concern. Respirations were 22-24 per minute. The patient had
upper airway wheezing. Albuterol nebs were given with
positive effect. His lung sounds were diminished at the
bases. He was assisted 