Admission Date:  [**2186-8-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2186-9-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2138-1-7**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 48-year-old male with a
history of Crohn's disease admitted on [**8-30**] with a
headache a right hand numbness and weakness.  A CT of the
head in the Emergency Room showed a left-sided enhancing mass
worrisome for a brain abscess.  The patient was in his usual
state of health until one month prior when he was diagnosed
with epididymitis after noticing right urethral discharge.
He was treated with ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. times
one month.

Four days prior to admission the patient noted right-sided
weakness, fevers to 102, with severe [**9-27**] frontal headache.
No evidence of seizures and denies any falls or urinary
incontinence.  He was noted to have photophobia and neck
stiffness prior to admission.

In the Emergency Department he had a lumbar puncture and a
head CT performed, and the head CT noted a left-sided
enhancing mass worrisome for a brain abscess.  He was given
morphine, ceftriaxone, Flagyl, vancomycin, and Decadron and
admitted to Neurosurgery and then the Neurosurgery Intensive
Care Unit.   While in the Neurosurgery Intensive Care Unit he
was continued on ceftriaxone, Flagyl, vancomycin, and
Decadron, as well as Dilantin.

On [**8-31**] he was noted to have a stereotactic CT-guided
biopsy of the brain lesion with multiple cultures sent.
Cerebrospinal fluid cultures were negative to date, and the
biopsy results were Gram stain negative.  He was
neurologically stable and was transferred to the floor.  At
the time of evaluation the patient described a [**3-28**] headache
that was described as "best in several days," and felt his
sinus rhythm numbness and weakness was "improving."  He
denied any fever, chills, and night sweats.  No photophobia.
No shortness of breath or chest pain.  No abdominal pain.  No
nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.  He denied any change in his
bowel movements or dysuria or hematuria.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (His past medical history is notable
for)
1.  Crohn's disease, status post colectomy 15 years ago;
notable for a history for a history of psoriasis, arthritis,
and fistula related to his Crohn's disease.
2.  C7-C6 and C6-C7 laminectomy with screws done in [**2186-8-19**] secondary to herniation of the disk.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Medications prior to admission
included Vioxx 25 mg p.o. q.d., ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o.
b.i.d. times one month.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  On transfer, he was receiving
vancomycin 1 g intravenously q.12h., Flagyl 500 mg
intravenously q.8h., ceftriaxone 2 g intravenously q.12h.,
Decadron 4 mg intravenously q.6h. (tapered by 1 g every two
to three days), Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d., Dilantin 100 mg
p.o. q.8h., morphine 2 g intravenously q.4h. p.r.n., Tylenol
p.r.n., regular insulin sliding-scale, Percocet, as well as
morphine sulfate p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:   No family history of cancer.  Mother passed
away at age 67 from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and
diabetes.  Father died at age 69 secondary to a myocardial
infarction, and he has three siblings that are healthy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Tobacco history revealed he smoked three to
four cigarettes per day and smoked heavily for two years in
the distant past.  Alcohol wise, he denies any alcohol or
intravenous drug use.  He lives in Rivi??????re, [**State 350**].
He has one son who is age 18.  Married, is a glass maker, and
has no other sexual partners.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Generally, he alert
and oriented times three, in no apparent distress.  He was
resting comfortably.  His speech was noted to be slightly
slurred.  Vital signs revealed a temperature of 96.7, pulse
of 71, blood pressure of 104/70, respiratory rate 20, oxygen
saturation 97% on room air.  Head, ears, nose, eyes and
throat revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.  Pupils were
equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements
were intact.  Mucous membranes were dry.  The oropharynx was
clear without any lesion.  Neck was supple.  No
lymphadenopathy.  No masses.  No jugular venous distention
and 2+ carotids, without any bruits.  Chest was notable for
bibasilar rales, right greater than left, with right-sided
rales noted to be approximately one-third of the way up.
Cardiovascular revealed a regular rate and rhythm, without
any murmurs, gallops or rubs.  The abdomen was soft,
nontender, and nondistended, with normal active bowel sounds.
No hepatosplenomegaly.  Colostomy was noted in the right
lower quadrant with no erythema.  Extremities revealed no
cyanosis, clubbing or edema with 2+ pulses bilaterally and
symmetric.  Skin was warm and dry without any rashes.
Neurologically, his cranial nerves II through XII were
intact.  A mild right facial asymmetry was noted on smile.
There was normal sensation across his face.  His motor
examination revealed 5/5 strength on the left, and 4/5
strength in the right upper extremity and right lower
extremity, and sensation was diminished in the right upper
extremity.  Mini-Mental examination was 28/30, on which he
lost a point space on serial sevens.  Deep tendon reflexes
were diminished on the right side compared to the left, and
toes were downgoing bilaterally.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories upon
transfer revealed white blood cell count of 13.5,
hematocrit 36.4, platelets 230.  Coagulations were within
normal limits.  Coagulation studies were within normal
limits.  Sodium 136, potassium 3.8, chloride 102,
bicarbonate 22, blood urea nitrogen 16, creatinine 0.7,
glucose of 110.  Magnesium of 1.5, calcium 8.1,
phosphate 1.3.  AST 8, ALT 10, alkaline phosphatase 74, total
bilirubin of 0.4, albumin 3.  Differential showed
84% neutrophils, 0 bands, and 11.4% lymphocytes.  A
cerebrospinal fluid from a lumbar puncture performed on
[**8-30**] showed a white blood cell count of 2325, 60 red
blood cells, 80% neutrophils in tube 4; and tube 1 was
notable for 2125 white blood cells, 90 red blood cells, with
81% neutrophils, total protein was 172, glucose was 37.  The
biopsy of the brain mass was Gram stain negative with no
polymorphonuclear leukocytes.  Culture was negative to date
with negative acid-fast bacillus, fungal cultures, as well as
nocardia were pending at the time of transfer to the floor.
In addition, blood cultures from [**8-30**] were negative
to date, and cerebrospinal fluid cultures showed 1+
polymorphonuclear leukocytes with no microorganism, and
fungal cultures were pending.  His urine culture was
negative, and a [**8-30**] GC and chlamydia culture were
also negative.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  CT of the abdomen showed multifocal
pneumonia, a normal prostate, questionable small fluid
collection at the inferior tip of the liver.  No evidence of
an small-bowel obstruction.

An magnetic resonance imaging of the head performed on
admission showed a 1.8-cm X 1.4-cm moderately enhancing
irregular mass lesion in the left posterior frontal white
matter; question abscess versus neoplasm, which was described
as lymphoma versus fungal versus toxoplasmosis.

Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 85 beats per
minute, with normal intervals, normal axis.  No ST-T wave
changes, mild atrial enlargement.

An echocardiogram showed normal left atrium, normal right
atrium, normal left ventricle with an ejection fraction of
greater than 55%, normal right ventricle, normal aortic
valve, 1+ mitral regurgitation, trivial tricuspid
regurgitation, trivial pulmonary regurgitation, and no
effusion or vegetation noted.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Mr. [**Known lastname 95985**] was admitted to the [**Hospital1 1444**] on [**2186-8-30**] with a
right-sided weakness and numbness and found on CT and
magnetic resonance imaging to have a left posterior frontal
lesion, thought to be a brain abscess.  He was transferred to
the floor on [**2186-9-2**], and his hospital course will
be dictated from that time.

The patient was continued on his antibiotic regimen including
vancomycin, ceftriaxone, and Flagyl.  His biopsy results were
followed and waiting for their culture and speciation.  The
etiology of his ab