Admission Date:  [**2193-12-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2194-1-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2167-11-21**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 26-year-old
female with a new diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy with an
ejection fraction of 10%.  The patient was admitted to the
Coronary Care Unit for management of her congestive heart
failure and cardiomyopathy.

The shortness of breath started approximately two to three
years.  At that time, she was diagnosed with asthma by
pulmonary function tests.  Six months ago, the patient noted
new shortness of breath with exertion and pleuritic chest
pain that was nonexertional and accompanied by nausea,
vomiting, and nonbloody diarrhea.

Approximately one month ago the patient noted she was waking
up from sleep gasping for air.  The patient went to her
primary care physician and was then admitted to [**Hospital 1474**]
Hospital.  In early [**2193-12-7**], an echocardiogram there
showed an ejection fraction of 10%.  She was seen by
Cardiology and started on medications for cardiomyopathy.
She was discharged on [**2193-12-13**].

The patient's symptoms worsened at home, and she was getting
more short of breath with exertion.  She could only go a few
steps prior to becoming short of breath.  She was returned to
[**Hospital 1474**] Hospital and was transferred to the [**Hospital1 346**] for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Idiopathic cardiomyopathy.
2.  Asthma.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Cesarean section four years ago; postpartum hemorrhage.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Digoxin 0.25 mg by mouth once per day.
2.  Lasix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
3.  Lisinopril 2.5 mg by mouth once per day.
4.  Toprol-XL 12.5 mg by mouth once per day.
5.  Potassium chloride 10 mEq by mouth once per day.

ALLERGIES:

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient works as a bus driver.  She
lives with her son and sister.  She has one child.  She quit
smoking one month ago; however, she had smoked half a pack
per day for eight years.  She denies alcohol and intravenous
drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Her family history is significant for a
brother with asthma.  Her mother has hypertension and
diabetes.  Her son has an "arrhythmia" and asthma.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
with vital signs which revealed the patient's temperature was
95.9 degrees Fahrenheit, her heart rate was 103, her blood
pressure was 144/81, her respiratory rate was 22, and her
oxygen saturation was 100% on 2 liters via nasal cannula.  In
general, the patient was pleasant and in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed the
pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.  The
extraocular movements were intact.  There was bilateral
tonsilar enlargement.  The mucous membranes were moist.
Jugular venous pressure at the angle of jaw.  There was no
lymphadenopathy.  Chest examination revealed the lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  There were no crackles.
Cardiovascular examination revealed tachycardia with a
regular rhythm.  There were no murmurs.  Positive third heart
sound and fourth heart sound.  The abdominal examination
revealed the abdomen was obese, nontender, and nondistended.
there were positive bowel sounds.  Extremity examination
revealed no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Dorsalis pedis and
posterior tibialis pulses were 2+ bilaterally.  Neurologic
examination revealed the patient was alert and oriented times
three.  Grossly intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed the patient's hematocrit was 39.6, and her platelets
were 261.  The patient's sodium was 142, potassium was 3.6,
chloride was 104, bicarbonate was 28, blood urea nitrogen was
10, creatinine was 0.9, and her blood glucose was 114.  Her
creatine kinase was 59.  Troponin was 0.06.  Urinalysis at
the outside hospital was negative.  Digoxin level was less
than 0.2.  Her INR was 1.3, her prothrombin time was 14, and
her partial thromboplastin time was 26.1.  Cardiac transplant
workup laboratories revealed the patient's total iron-binding
capacity was 361, her ferritin was 58, TRF was 278, her
hemoglobin A1c was 6.1.  Her low-density lipoprotein was 80,
cholesterol/HD was 3.3, her high-density lipoprotein was 42,
her triglycerides were 90.  Her thyroid-stimulating hormone
was 2.5.  Her free T4 was 1.3.  Hepatitis B surface antigen
was negative.  Hepatitis B surface antibody was positive.
Hepatitis B core antibody was negative.  Hepatitis A virus
antibody was negative.  Antinuclear antibody was negative.
Hepatitis C virus antibody was negative.  Human
immunodeficiency virus antibody was negative.  Toxo IgG was
negative.  IgM was negative.  [**Doctor Last Name 3271**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] virus viral capsid
antigen IgG antibody positive.  [**Doctor Last Name 3271**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] virus viral
capsid antigen IgG antibody positive.  [**Doctor Last Name 3271**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] virus
[**Doctor Last Name 3271**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] nuclear antigen IgG antibody positive.
[**Doctor Last Name 3271**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] virus viral capsid antigen IgM antibody
negative.  Cytomegalovirus IgG positive.  Cytomegalovirus IgM
negative.  Varicella zoster negative.  Herpes simplex virus
II IgG negative.  Herpes simplex virus I IgG negative.  The
patient's aspartate aminotransferase was 16, her
alanine-aminotransferase was 20, and her bilirubin was 1.6,
her alkaline phosphatase was 63.  Her magnesium was 2.3, her
calcium was 8.9, and her phosphorous was 4.3.  Her albumin
was 3.2.  Her amylase was 47.  Her lactate dehydrogenase was
317.  Purified protein derivative was negative.
Guaiac-negative.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A posterior/anterior and
lateral chest x-ray revealed no cardiomegaly but no evidence
of cardiac failure or pneumonia.

Impression from a computed tomography angiogram revealed the
examination was greatly limited due to the patient's body
habitus.  There was no pulmonary embolus identified.  There
was bilateral dependent atelectasis.  Findings were
consistent with congestive heart failure.

Impression from an ultrasound of the abdomen (complete study)
revealed (1) gallstones and (2) normal liver Doppler, but
right hepatic artery not visualized due to technical
limitations.

An electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 98
beats per minute, normal axis, normal intervals, right atrial
enlargement, and left atrial enlargement.  There were Q waves
in V5 and V6.  No changes.  Consistent with prior
electrocardiogram.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  The patient was admitted to the
hospital and taken directly to cardiac catheterization.
During the procedure, the patient went into an
atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia arrhythmia and
was given adenosine with good results.

On the evening of night of [**1-2**] to [**1-3**], the
patient went into a heart rate in the 190s.
Electrocardiogram at that time was taken and showed
atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia arrhythmia.
Vagal maneuvers were attempted without success.  Blood
pressure was stable in the 100s.  The patient was
asymptomatic; however, when the patient was woken up she
complained of chest pain, right arm pain, diaphoresis, and
lightheadedness.  The symptoms resolved when the patient was
given adenosine with good resolution of atrioventricular
nodal reentrant tachycardia.

On cardiac catheterization the patient was shown to have
dilated cardiomyopathy and high cardiac pressures, elevated
central venous pressure, pulmonary artery pressure (both
systolic and diastolic), and elevated pulmonary capillary
wedge pressure.  Henceforth, the patient was started on a
Lasix drip initially and then taken off for fear of pushing
the patient into prerenal failure.  She was then started on
milrinone.  An ACE inhibitor was then added in addition to a
beta blocker with good pressure control.

Despite medical management, the patient continued to be
tachycardic since admission secondary to her heart failure.
She was started on a workup for cardiac transplantation and
without followed by Dr.[**Name (NI) 23312**] Conges