Admission Date:  [**2126-5-4**]     Discharge Date:  [**2126-5-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2058-2-3**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 68-year-old
female with a history of diabetes, known gallstone disease,
transferred from an outside hospital for workup of presumed
cholecystitis.  The patient had been feeling ill for two
weeks prior to her admission to the outside hospital.  She
was diagnosed with an upper respiratory infection by her
primary care physician and given ciprofloxacin.

On the day of admission to the outside hospital, she
collapsed out of dizziness.  At the outside hospital, she had
a course significant for a pancreatitis with a lipase of
[**2123**], a presumed cholecystitis with right upper quadrant
ultrasound consistent with cholecystitis without biliary
dilatation, as well as a left upper lobe pneumonia.  She
received cefuroxime for antibiotics, and a CT scan which
showed significant only for pancreatic atrophy.  She
continued to have respiratory distress and gastrointestinal
pain, and was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for further workup.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Diabetes.
2. Hypertension.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Neurological:  Patient with a normal mental status on her
admission.  She was sedated for her intubation.  She was
weaned periodically, and her mental status was noted to be
responsive.

2. Cardiovascular:  Ischemia:  Patient with known coronary
artery disease.  She was continued on her PR aspirin.  Her
beta blocker was held secondary to her hypotension.

Pump:  The patient with a known low ejection fraction of
anywhere from 20-40%.  She was slightly volume overloaded on
her admission, and received dialysis as she was aneuric
throughout her admission at [**Hospital1 **].  Afterload reduction was held
since she was hypotensive.

Rhythm:  Patient with known V-tach in the past and AICD
placed in [**2125-7-2**] for V-tach on the setting of a
myocardial infarction.  She had multiple episodes of V-tach
while in-house.  She was managed on lidocaine and amiodarone
drips, and was seen by EP Service.  Did receive multiple
shocks throughout her admission.

Hypotension:  Patient was hypotensive likely secondary to
sepsis from pneumonia.  Was initially placed on phenylephrine
to avoid beta action on the heart, and which was eventually
changed to norepinephrine.

3. Pulmonary:  Patient was admitted with a left upper lobe
pneumonia thought to be community acquired.  She was
continued on levofloxacin for her community acquired
pneumonia.  She then developed bilateral infiltrates thought
to be failure versus ARDS.  She was intubated on the third
day of her admission for respiratory distress and hypoxia.

She did receive invasive PA catheter monitoring which is
significant for a wedge of 20, and after three days, a Swan
was discontinued.

4. Gastrointestinal:  Patient with a transaminitis and
pancreatitis by enzymes while she was here.  She received
multiple right upper quadrant ultrasounds which was not
significant for any cholecystitis, but did have gallstones.
She received an ERCP with sphincterotomy which revealed
gallbladder sludge.  However, her right upper quadrant
enzymes never totally resolved, and continued to have a
pancreatitis.  However, she is felt not to have an active
cholecystitis throughout this admission.

5. Heme:  The patient did have 1 unit of blood transfusion
while she was here, but was guaiac negative, had no clear
bleeding source.

Thrombocytopenia:  Unclear origin.  She had a negative HIT
antibody.

6. Endocrine:  Patient on insulin drip while in-house for her
diabetes.

7. Infectious Disease:  The patient was maintained on
Vancomycin, levo, and Flagyl throughout most of her admission
to cover right upper quadrant bugs as well as her pneumonia.
She initially received two days of meropenem, and this
coverage was changed.  She was never febrile throughout this
admission.

Additional MICU course:  The patient was considered septic
throughout her time.  Was continued on antibiotics and
pressor support.  However, her admission was complicated by
multiple episodes of ventricular tachycardia.

She eventually had a sustained V-tach which was pulseless.
The patient was coded unsuccessfully, and received multiple
shocks, and we are unable to get a pulse back.

Family was notified, and no postmortem examination was
requested.




                                   [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6834**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2126-5-22**]  21:16
T:  [**2126-5-27**]  08:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 47759**]
