Admission Date:  [**2188-10-17**]     Discharge Date: [**2188-11-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2127-3-20**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

ADDENDUM:  This is an Addendum to the hospital course to the
previous Discharge Summary.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM
(CONTINUED):

1.  ACUTE-ON-CHRONIC RENAL FAILURE ISSUES:  The patient
continued to have decreasing urine output over the course of
her stay and at times became anuric and was eventually
started on hemodialysis.  Because the patient's blood
pressures were still hypotensive, she was started on
continuous venovenous hemodialysis which the patient
tolerated well for the first 24 hour to 36 hours.  However,
the machine clotted and the patient was discontinued on this.


During this time, the patient's course was complicated by an
episode of unresponsiveness which was of unclear etiology.
The patient was off hemodialysis.  The patient was
hypothermic while on hemodialysis.  The patient had multiple
blood cultures, and urine cultures, and sputum cultures
drawn.  The urine cultures grew fungus, but other than that
remained negative.  The patient had a cortisol level sent
which did show suppressed adrenal function.  The patient was
started on a 7-day course of high-dose steroids.

During this time, the patient's hematocrit was found to drop
pretty acutely from 30 to 24; unsure of the source.  The
patient was transfused 2 units of packed red blood cells and
tolerated this well.  The patient's hematocrit then remained
stable at greater than 30 over the course of her stay.

The patient also had a computed tomography of her abdomen and
pelvis done to rule out source of hematomas.  During this
time, the patient's blood pressure was slightly low and was
started on short-term pressors; however, this was titrated
off within 12 hours, and the patient's blood pressure
remained stable off pressors.

However, the patient's renal failure did not improve.  The
patient remained anuric and was restarted on continuous
venovenous hemodialysis for another three days.  The patient
tolerated this well.  As her blood pressure was rising, the
patient was switched over to ultrafiltration, to which she
was tolerating well except for episodes of hypotension as
long as ultrafiltration was done at a slow rate.

Otherwise, the patient was continued on renally dosed
medications with avoidance of nephrotoxins.  The patient's
creatinine improved while on dialysis; however, her urine
output remained low throughout the course of this stay and
will likely need to continue dialysis until her renal
function improves and urine output picks up.

Otherwise, the patient had a Quinton catheter placed by the
Renal team under ultrasound guidance in her right internal
jugular vein for hemodialysis access, and this remained
stable throughout the course of her stay.  Eventually, the
patient will need a tunnel hemodialysis catheter if she
remains on this for a longer period of time.  The patient was
also continued on her immunosuppressive regimen of
tacrolimus, and CellCept, and prednisone.  The patient's
medication regimen was dosed per levels, and these remained
stable.  The patient did not have a renal biopsy because she
was anticoagulated, and the risk of a hematoma at that site;
although, rejection was less likely, and the source of her
acute renal failure is still unclear.

2.  RESPIRATORY FAILURE ISSUES:  For the patient's
respiratory failure, after her episode of unresponsiveness,
the patient was restarted on ventilation through her
tracheostomy site, and the patient had a blood gas which was
shown to be acidotic and hypertachypneic; however, was more
consistent with a metabolic source of her unresponsiveness.
She did improve in terms of mental status changes rapidly
while being ventilated.  The patient was weaned rapidly
within days off of the ventilator and currently has completed
greater than 72 hours on trach trial without evidence of
fatigue.

Prior to her episode of respiratory failure, the patient had
previously had trach site changed to a smaller size for goals
of eventual removal of the trach.  The patient had a
bronchoscopy during the course of this admission which showed
swollen vocal cords and some small granulation tissue at the
site of her tracheostomy; however, this was not very
significant.  The patient was to continue to try trach cap
trials to improve her upper airway ventilation, and as
tolerated will try to wean back down on the size of her
tracheostomy site to eventual removal as the patient shows
competence with respiratory status without the tracheostomy
and without fatigue.

The patient was continued on a tracheostomy mask to support
her oxygenation; although, she was tried on nasal cannula at
times and tolerated this well.  Because of poor upper airway
support, the patient tolerated the tracheostomy mask well,
and this can be weaned as tolerated with the goal of eventual
tracheostomy removal.  This can be continued at
rehabilitation.

3.  SEPTIC THROMBOPHLEBITIS ISSUES:  The patient developed
septic thrombophlebitis on her right upper extremity where
she had previously had a peripherally inserted central
catheter line placed and developed a clot as well as positive
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection at that
site.  The patient was to continue for a 6-week total course
of vancomycin and was to continue anticoagulation with
Coumadin as she is allergic to heparin.  If needed, if her
INR drops below 2, the patient should be started on her
argatroban to maintain appropriate anticoagulation. Otherwise,
this remains stable.

4.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient's coronary
artery disease remained stable throughout this course.  She
was continued on her aspirin, Plavix, and beta blocker which
was titrated up as tolerated for better blood pressure
control.

5.  TYPE 1 DIABETES ISSUES:  The patient was continued on her
glargine with Humalog sliding-scale; however, because of poor
control, which was especially worsened while high-dose
steroids, the patient was started on an insulin drip for 36
hours to 48 hours.  This was eventually weaned off, and the
patient was started back on her glargine and Humalog regimen.

Eventually the patient's nutritional status improved where
she did not require tube feeds and was taking good amounts
through mouth.  Will continue to watch her insulin
requirement on this diet regimen, and this can be titrated up
for better control.  Goal blood sugar of less than 120.

Otherwise, for diabetic gastroparesis, the patient was
restarted on her home regimen of domperidone which was
brought in by her husband which she was to continue to take
for making her gastroparesis better.  Eventually, her
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube can be replaced if
the patient continues to have good oral intake.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  To be dictated as an Addendum to this
at the time of discharge.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  To be dictated as an Addendum to
this at the time of discharge.






                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7585**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 264**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2188-11-18**]  13:33
T:  [**2188-11-18**]  15:28
JOB#:  [**Job Number 92949**]
