Admission Date:  [**2104-5-21**]     Discharge Date:  [**2104-5-30**]


Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Substernal chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  An 85-year-old female with
cardiac risk factors including diabetes, hyperlipidemia, age,
who presents with severe chest and neck pain.  The patient
awoke on the day of admission with mild pain in the shoulder
which improved with massage, aspirin, and heat.  The pain
then worsened, and by 5 pm, the substernal chest pain was
[**9-24**] which radiated to her left arm.  The pain was described
as heaviness and tightness.  There is positive shortness of
breath, positive palpitations.  The patient denied nausea,
vomiting, and diaphoresis.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was normotensive and
had ST elevations in leads II, III, and aVF.  The patient was
found to be in atrial fibrillation.  She was taken to the
catheterization laboratory, where 80-90% lesion of her
circumflex artery was noted and 80% occlusion of the left
anterior descending artery.  Angioplasty was attempted
multiple times, but as a result of balloon rupture secondary
to calcium spike, it became necessary to use a rotablade
procedure.

The patient was rotabladed with successful Hepastent
placement.  The patient was noted to have critical aortic
stenosis during the procedure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Diabetes.
2. Hyperlipidemia.
3. Osteoarthritis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Right hip replacement.

FAMILY HISTORY:  A 55-year-old son with prior myocardial
infarction.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Denies smoking, denies ethanol.  The patient
has nine children.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Zocor 10 q day.
2. Celebrex 200 mg q day.
3. Glipizide.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  General:  Pleasant female alert and oriented
times three.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Extraocular
muscles intact.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to
light.  Neck:  Bruit over left carotid.  Neck supple.  Chest:
Bilateral crackles at lung bases.  Cardiac:  Tachycardia,
irregular rate, systolic murmur loudest at base and radiates
to the neck.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended,
positive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  No edema.  Neurologic
is nonfocal.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 15.2,
hemoglobin 14.8, hematocrit 42.7, platelets 140.
Differential:  Neutrophils 84.7%, bands 0%, lymphocytes 9.5%,
monocytes 5.3%, eosinophils 0.3%, basophils 0.3%.  PT 12.8,
INR 1.2.  Glucose 223, urea 22, creatinine 0.7, sodium 133,
potassium 4.3, chloride 96, CK 40, troponin less than 0.3.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  Atrial fibrillation, [**Street Address(2) 1766**] elevations
in leads II, III, and aVF.

CHEST X-RAY:
1. Slight prominence of the pulmonary vasculature suggesting
mild congestive heart failure.
2. Bilateral small focal opacities within the peripheral mid
lung zone.

CATHETERIZATION RESULTS/FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
1. Two vessel coronary artery disease.
2. Probable severe aortic stenosis.
3. Successful PTCA, rotastenting of the circumflex for acute
inferoposterior myocardial infarction.
4. Elevated right and left heart filling pressures.

COMMENTS:
1. Selective coronary arteriography of the right dominant
system revealed angiographic evidence of two vessel coronary
artery disease.  The left main artery was free of flow
limiting lesions.  The left anterior descending artery had
50% proximal stenosis followed by a long 80% stenosis after
the first diagonal branch.  The circumflex gave rise to large
obtuse marginal which had a 90% proximal stenosis.  Small
sub-branch of this large vessel had a 90% proximal stenosis.
The right coronary artery had a long segment of less than 50%
mid-disease.

2. Hemodynamic assessment revealed evidence of elevated left
and right heart filling pressures, the right ventricle end
diastolic pressure of 16 mm Hg and a mean pulmonary capillary
wedge pressure of 26 mm Hg.  There are prominent V-waves on
the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure tracing (33 mm Hg),
consistent with mitral regurgitation.  The cardiac index was
low at 1.88.

3. Successful PTCA rotational atherectomy/stenting of the
circumflex was performed.  There was no residual stenosis,
normal flow, and no apparent dissection.

4. There was evidence of critical aortic valve stenosis with
a mean gradient of 27 mm Hg and a peak to peak of 40 mm Hg
with an aortic valve area of 0.54 cm squared.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:  Coronary artery disease:  The
patient was started on Integrilin, Heparin, Lopressor in the
Emergency Department.  Patient was taken to catheterization
with 80%-90% circumflex artery stenosis believed to be the
culprit lesion and 80% LAD occlusion.  PTCA attempted
multiple times, the result of balloon rupture which was
believed to be secondary to calcium spike.

Patient was rotabladed with successful Hepastent placement.
The patient was noted to have critical aortic stenosis during
the procedure.  The patient was on a regimen of aspirin,
Integrilin, and Plavix status post catheterization.  The
patient was started on beta blocker status post
catheterization.  Captopril was begun on hospital day #3.

FINDINGS ON CATHETERIZATION:  Cardiac output 2.81, cardiac
index 1.44, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 26, pulmonary
artery pressure 48/26.  A-V gradient 27 with valve area of
0.54.

On hospital day #3, the patient was transferred to the floor
in stable condition.  On hospital day #7, the patient was
experiencing shortness of breath and was found to be in
congestive heart failure.  Acute coronary syndrome was
considered a possible precipitant.  Subsequent CKs were not
elevated and there was no changes on her electrocardiogram.
Troponin was elevated at 2.3.  This was considered secondary
to congestive heart failure, her recent cardioversion, and a
recent posterior myocardial infarction.  Thus, the second
episode of acute myocardial infarction in this situation is
unlikely.

Atrial fibrillation:  Patient came into the Emergency
Department in a-fib with a heart rate of 130s-150s.  She was
treated with 5 mg of Lopressor x3 in the Emergency
Department.  During catheterization, the patient converted to
sinus rhythm.

Hospital day #4, patient went into atrial fibrillation, at
which point Heparin was restarted.  ACE inhibitor was stopped
and Lopressor was increased to 75 mg tid for rate controlled.
The patient's heart rate was in the 80s-90s.  The patient was
started on [**Hospital 197**] hospital day #5, and EP was consulted.

The patient had transesophageal echocardiogram prior to
cardioversion, which indicated there was no clots in her left
atrium or left ventricle.  The patient has remained in normal
sinus rhythm for the remainder of her hospital course.  The
patient was started on amiodarone status post cardioversion,
and Lopressor was decreased to 50 mg tid.  Patient's heart
rate has been typically in the 70s since cardioversion.
Patient is on both amiodarone and Coumadin.  PT/INR need to
be followed closely as amiodarone decreases metabolism of
Coumadin.

LFTs were ALT 28, AST 34, alkaline phosphatase 132, total
bilirubin 1.3.  Plan was for patient to receive [**Doctor Last Name **] of
Hearts monitor when discharged to home.  Heparin was stopped
once INR and Coumadin was therapeutic.

Aortic stenosis:  During the catheterization, the patient was
found to have an A-V gradient of 27 with valve area of 0.4.
On a followup echocardiogram, the mean gradient was 34, valve
area of 0.8, left ventricular ejection fraction was 65%.
Cardiothoracic Surgery was consulted.  Patient is a candidate
for A-V repair at a later date.

Shortness of breath/congestive heart failure:  On hospital
day #7, the patient awoke from sleep with shortness of breath
and palpitations.  Her O2 saturation dropped into the 80s.
Patient had crackles bilaterally and some scattered wheezes.
Portable chest x-ray was consistent with congestive heart
failure.  Patient was started on oxygen and treated with
albuterol nebulizer, 40 mg Lasix IV x2.  The patient was
placed on a 2 liter fluid restriction.  The patient improved
during the day.

On the morning of hospital day #8, the patient again awoke
from sleep with shortness of breath and palpitations.
Physical examina