Admission Date: [**2126-5-25**]        Discharge Date: [**2126-6-2**]

Date of Birth:  [**2070-7-15**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CME


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 55-year-old male with
longstanding diabetes, CAD status post CABG on [**2126-3-6**], and
peripheral vascular disease who presented after 2 days of
nausea/vomiting with notable coffee-ground emesis on the
morning of admission.  He has had 2 days of epigastric pain
and 2 days prior to admission was informed by PCP to start on
PO vancomycin for positive C. difficile.  The patient
reported nausea immediately following initiation of
vancomycin, which progressed to vomiting.  He had 2 days of
sharp, constant, abdominal pain and diarrhea, which was
improving.  No blood per rectum or black/tarry stools.  The
patient also complained of chest pain/left arm pain x 2-3
months, tender to palpation and worse with movement.  He also
has shortness of breath associated with the pain though
different from prior angina.  In ED, the patient was
hypertensive with right arm 218/147, left 240/98, tachycardia
to 103.  EKG showed no T-wave inversions in V2 to V4 and lead
I compared to that of [**2126-3-19**].  He was treated with
sublingual nitroglycerin, IV Lopressor, and labetalol as well
as morphine with response of decreasing chest pain and blood
pressure.  He was noted to vomit coffee-grounds and was NG
lavaged clear with 600 cc.  He was given IV Protonix at that
time.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.

Left lower lobe collapse.

Hypercholesterolemia.

Insulin-dependent diabetes.

CHF with EF of 30-35 percent on [**2126-2-27**].

Chronic renal insufficiency, baseline creatinine 1.5-1.9.

CAD status post CABG x 4 in [**2-28**] with LIMA to LAD, SVG to
RCA to PDA, SVG to OM1.

PVD/claudication.

Tracheomalacia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Aspirin 325 mg a day.
2. Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Amitriptyline 25 mg q.h.s.
4. Lopressor 75 mg p.o. b.i.d.
5. Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6. Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
7. Pletal 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8. Glargine 20 units q.a.m.
9. Atacand 16 mg p.o. q.d.


ALLERGIES:  CEFEPIME, WHICH GIVES FLUSHING AND TACHYCARDIA.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  A 20-pack-year tobacco history.  No ETOH.
No IVDU.  Spanish-speaking from [**Country 7192**].  Lives with
brother's family.  Not married.  No kids.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father with CAD.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  VITAL SIGNS:  Afebrile,
heart rate 90s, blood pressure 122/60, respirations 17,
oxygen saturation 100 percent on 5 liters, decreasing to 97
percent on room air.  GENERAL:  Hispanic male, appearing
older than stated age, resting, in no acute distress.  HEENT:
PERLA and EOMI.  Moist mucous membranes.  Clear oropharynx
with poor dentition.  NECK:  Supple, bilateral carotid
bruits.  JVP about 8 cm at 45 degrees.  CARDIOVASCULAR:
Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1, S2.  Early systolic
murmur over right upper sternal border and left upper sternal
border radiating to carotids bilaterally.  LUNGS:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  No egophony.  Slight decreased
breath sounds to left lower lung.  ABDOMEN:  Normoactive
bowel sounds, soft, nondistended, tender in midepigastrium
without rebound or guarding, audible bruit, midline abdomen
with well-healed surgical scar.  EXTREMITIES:  Faint PT
pulses bilaterally, but good flow with Doppler.  Chronic
venous stasis changes bilaterally.  Sensation to touch and
position intact bilaterally.  No palpable cords or edema.
RECTAL:  Guaiac negative.  NEURO:  Cranial nerves II-XII
grossly intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  Significant on admission for white count
12.4, hematocrit 35.1, and platelets 549.  BUN 25, creatinine
1.5, CK 138, MB 6, troponin 0.04.  Next set, CK 103 with MB
of 4 and troponin of 0.02.

RADIOGRAPHIC STUDIES:  Chest x-ray, elevation of left
hemidiaphragm, blunting of the right and left CPAs, no
pulmonary vascular condition, no pneumothorax, persistent
bibasilar atelectasis.  MRA showing atherosclerotic changes
of infrarenal abdominal aorta without evidence of aneurysmal
dilatation.  High-grade stenosis of right proximal common
iliac and diffuse disease of left common iliac, severe
disease of left superficial femoral artery.  Bilateral
disease of anterior tibial arteries.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  GI bleed:  The patient had EGD on [**2126-5-26**],
showing nonbleeding [**Doctor First Name **]-[**Doctor Last Name **] tear from vomiting in the
gastric cardia.  EGD also showed mild esophagitis and
multiple erosions possibly consistent with NSAID-associated
gastropathy and gastritis.  The patient was started on
Protonix b.i.d. with no further rebleeding from this tear.
His hematocrit has remained stable, so he did require a few
blood transfusions.  He was guaiac negative later during
admission.  He also was treated with Carafate 4 times a day
and was instructed to follow all pills with soft bread.  Per
GI fellow, he will need IV PPI b.i.d. x 8 weeks followed by
PPI q.d.

Clostridium difficile colitis:  Because of abdominal upsets
on oral vancomycin, he was switched to oral Flagyl to
complete a 14-day course.  Although, he experienced continued
dyspepsia, he tolerated this medication well with no further
nausea/vomiting.  His diarrhea also had resolved by hospital
discharge.

CAD:  The patient was status post CABG  and ruled out for MI
earlier on initial presentation.  He experienced 1 further
episode of chest pain for which he received 4 sublingual
nitroglycerin with decrease in the pain.  He had no EKG
changes at that time, and repeat enzymes were sent, which
were negative.  He will be continued on aspirin, beta-
blocker, and statin with re-adding of his ACE inhibitor as an
outpatient once his creatinine is fully stable.  His
hematocrit was kept greater than 30 during admission.

Hypertension:  For extremely elevated blood pressure, the
patient was started on nitroglycerin gtt and once this was
weaned off, started on hydralazine and Isordil.  His
hydralazine was gradually weaned off during admission.  The
patient required increasing doses of his beta-blocker during
admission with occasional persistent hypertension to systolic
of 150s-160s.  His ACE inhibitor was not restarted during
admission secondary to chronic renal insufficiency issues,
but should be restarted on discharge.

CHF:  The patient had an EF of 30-35 percent.  Initially,
gentle fluids were given with holding of Lasix secondary to
renal failure, but Lasix was re-added at home dose later in
admission.  Because he developed crackles later in admission,
he was also given 2 doses of IV Lasix with good response of
urine output.

Acute renal failure:  After admission, creatinine noted to
bump up to the mid-2 range.  He was gently hydrated with
holding of his Lasix, and creatinine decreased to baseline by
discharge.  His ACE inhibitor was held during admission.

Right hand cellulitis:  The patient was noted to have
increase in white count with erythema, tenderness, and warmth
on the dorsum of his right forearm, where his former IV site
had been.  Given that patient was diabetic, he was started on
Augmentin for a 7-day course.

Peripheral vascular disease:  The patient has chronic
claudication and was to be scheduled for outpatient bypass
procedure by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 487**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].  Given that he was already
an inpatient, the patient was taken to lab for bilateral
iliac stent placement prior to discharge, which he tolerated
well.  He will need to return in the next 3 weeks for full
bypass procedure once his renal issues are resolved.

IDDM:  The patient continued on Lantus and RISS.

Urinary retention:  The patient was noted to have urinary
retention late during admission without administration of
narcotics or other medications causing this.  He was started
on Flomax.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Hypertensive emergency.

Diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent.

Clostridium difficile colitis.

Coronary artery disease.

Status post coronary artery bypass surgery.

Peripheral vascular disease status post bilateral iliac
stent.

Urinary retention.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Sucralfate 1 tablet 