Admission Date:  [**2154-5-4**]       Discharge Date:  [**2154-5-15**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old man, with
a history of dementia and atrial fibrillation, who presents
from home.  He originally went to an outside hospital where a
chest x-ray revealed left pleural effusion and a large
cardiac silhouette.  The patient was found to have increasing
shortness of breath and pleuritic chest pain radiating to his
back, and was transferred to the [**Hospital1 **]
Hospital for further evaluation and work-up.  The patient
denies nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, but does admit to
shortness of breath and chest pain, as above.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Atrial fibrillation, 2) Status post
spinal fusion, 3) History of prostate cancer, status post XRT
in [**2142**], 4) Mitral valve prolapse, 5) Status post knee
surgery, 6) Status post appendectomy, 7) History of pneumonia
eight months ago.

ALLERGIES:  None.

MEDICATIONS:  1) coumadin 5 mg po qd, 2) lasix 20 mg po qd,
3) digoxin 0.25 mg po qd, 3) Aricept 5 mg po qd, 4) KCL 20 mg
po qd.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:  Generally, agitated, demented.
JVP was at 8 cmH2O.  Distant heart sounds.  Pulsus 15 mmH2O.
Bilateral rales at the bases.  Decreased breath sounds, left
greater than right, at the bases.  II/VI systolic murmur.

White count 8.5, crit 32.2, platelets 422.  Sodium 138,
potassium 4.6, chloride 101, bicarb 25, BUN 31, creatinine
0.9, glucose 162.  CT chest and abdomen revealed no aortic
dissection, but did reveal a 4x4 abdominal aortic aneurysm,
infrarenal, cardiomegaly, and a large pericardial effusion
with bilateral pleural effusions.  EKG was atrial
fibrillation at a rate of 110, biphasic T waves in 4 through
6, but no alternans, no decreased voltage.

HOSPITAL COURSE - 1) PERICARDIAL EFFUSION:  The patient was
monitored closely with daily measurements of his pulsus
paradoxus and close blood pressure monitoring, as it was
thought that he had possible impending tamponade.  Serial
echocardiograms revealed some echocardiographic evidence for
tamponade, but the patient was able to maintain a normal to
high blood pressure.

Nevertheless, on hospital day #5, the patient was taken to
the Catheterization Lab and a pericardiocentesis was
performed where blood was removed from the pericardial space,
and there was found to be a loculated pericardial effusion
with significant amounts of blood clot.  The patient's INR
was 6.5 at admission which may have explained the patient's
bloody pericardial effusion.  There was cytology done on this
sample that was negative; however, malignancy was still a
concern in this patient with a history of prostate cancer.
The patient's pleuritic chest pain, shortness of breath
improved after pericardiocentesis.  The patient was monitored
in the CCU for 48 hours, and the patient had symptomatic
improvement, was able to be weaned off the minimal amount of
oxygen, had decreased shortness of breath.

2) PLEURAL EFFUSION:  The patient's pleural effusion was also
tapped and almost 2 liters of fluid were removed.  This was
consistent with an exudative effusion; however, there was no
obvious cause for exudative effusion, no Gram stain findings.
The fluid culture was negative.  The patient was afebrile
throughout his hospitalization and showed no sign of
infection.  Again, malignancy was at the top of the list for
the possible etiology of the effusions.  The pleural disease
service was consulted and considered pleuroscopy with biopsy.
However, the patient's pleural effusion did not
reaccumulate; therefore, pleuroscopy was not pursued.
However, at a future date pleuroscopy could be pursued for
both biopsy and pleurodesis if this patient has recurrent
problems with pleural effusions and shortness of breath.

3) ATRIAL FIBRILLATION:  The patient's atrial fibrillation
was uncontrolled for several days with a high rate of 131-40.
Minimal rate control was pursued because of the patient's
possible tamponade physiology.  When the patient's
pericardial effusion was further characterized and tapped,
more aggressive rate control was pursued with Lopressor which
was titrated up to 75 mg po tid.  The patient was also
started on Norvasc for rate control and blood pressure
control.  The patient's heart rate was better controlled at
the time of discharge, between 80 and 90.

The patient had a run of CHF when his rate was quite high in
the context of this pericardial effusion.  The patient was
diuresed in the CCU, and the patient was no longer short of
breath, and was off oxygen at the time of discharge.

4) DEMENTIA:  The patient had definite sundowning.  He was
started on Zyprexa at 5:00 pm each day with prn Risperdal.
The patient responded well to this regimen and was minimally
disruptive.  At time of discharge, the patient did require
1:1 sitter for much of his hospitalization, but this was
discontinued several days prior to discharge.

5) ACTIVITY LEVEL:  The patient became physically
decompensated after being in bed for several days with his
shortness of breath and pericardial effusion.  The patient
was seen by physical therapy and evaluated, and thought to be
a good candidate for acute rehab, as he had been pretty
independent and functional prior to discharge.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.  The patient was discharged to
acute rehab.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1) Norvasc 7.5 mg po qd, 2)
Olanzapine 7.5 mg po q 5:00 pm every night, 3) Lopressor 75
mg po tid, 4) Risperdal 1 mg po bid prn, 5) digoxin 0.25 mg
po qd, 6) subcu heparin 5,000 U q 12 h, 7) lasix 20 mg po qd,
8) docusate 100 mg po bid, 9) Donepezil 5 mg po q hs.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  1) Congestive heart failure.  2)
Pericardial effusion.  3) Pleural effusion.  4) Atrial
fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.  5) Dementia.
6) Status post prostate cancer.




                            [**Doctor First Name 475**] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 474**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 9632**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7942**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2154-5-15**]  08:39
T:  [**2154-5-15**]  07:57
JOB#:  [**Job Number 99862**]
