Admission Date:  [**2176-7-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2176-7-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2109-7-29**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66 year old
gentleman with a history of obesity, peripheral vascular
disease, hypertension and heavy tobacco use was admitted
initially to [**Hospital3 1280**] on [**7-19**] complaining of chest pressure,
dizziness, weakness, diaphoresis and hypotension.  He was in
his usual state of health until 11:00 p.m. that night when he
took a double dose of Zestril and suffered an episode of
nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis and chest pressure [**5-25**] without
relief which lasted about three hours until he came to the
emergency department.  In the E.D. patient's blood pressure
was 90/58, heart rate 82.  Within an hour patient's systolic
blood pressure dropped to 45, heart rate dropped to 32 and
patient was found in 2:1 heart block.  Patient received 0.5
mg of atropine and 1 mg of epi after which patient went into
SVT at a rate of 180.  Patient was cardioverted out of this
rhythm with 50 joules after which patient's systolic blood
pressure dropped to the mid-60s and patient was started on
dopamine 10 mcg per kg per hour.  Patient was transferred to
the CCU at [**Hospital3 1280**].  His EKG showed sinus tachycardia with
frequent ectopy.  Per notes from the outside hospital, his
EKG was suspicious for right sided MI especially in the
context of receiving aggressive fluid replacement, close to 4
liters, and remaining persistently hypotensive.  Patient was
started on acute coronary syndrome protocol, aspirin, heparin
drip, Integrilin drip.  Beta blocker was held secondary to
bradycardia.  Dopamine drip was weaned off and Neo drip was
started.  The next morning patient had an echocardiogram
which showed ejection fraction of 40% and inferior/right
ventricular hypokinesis.  Patient's CK peaked at 1293.
Patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for cardiac catheterization.  On arrival to [**Hospital1 1444**], patient was chest pain free.
He was on Neo-Synephrine drip with blood pressure of 140/100,
pulse 75.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.  Peripheral vascular
disease, status post right carotid endarterectomy in [**2172**].
History of TIA.  History of anxiety disorder.  History of
obesity.  History of heavy tobacco use.

MEDICATIONS:  Zestril, Paxil 5 mg p.o. q.d., Xanax 0.25 mg
p.o. q.i.d., aspirin.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Aspirin, heparin, Integrilin,
Neo-Synephrine 20 mcg per minute, Protonix 40 p.o. q.d.,
Paxil 10 p.o. q.d., Xanax, Levaquin 500 p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease.  Father died of
myocardial infarction at the age of 79.  Diabetes in
patient's mother.  Hepatocellular carcinoma in patient's
father.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  More than 50 pack year smoking history.
Alcohol use one to two drinks per day.  Patient is retired.
He has four children.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On transfer to the cardiac intensive
care unit, the patient's temperature was 98.2, pulse 82,
blood pressure 112/66, respirations 22, 95% on 3 liters,
pulsus paradoxus 3 to 5 mm. Patient was on Neo-Synephrine 0.2
mcg per minute.  In general, patient demonstrated labored
breathing, was speaking in short sentences, was lying in bed
in mild respiratory distress.  HEENT patient had very mild
right eyelid droop.  Pupils were equal, round, and reactive
to light and accommodation.  There was poor dentition, but
normal oropharyngeal mucosa.  Neck no carotid bruits.  There
was 3 to 4 cm jugular venous distention above the clavicle.
Pulmonary there was poor air movement, extensive audible
wheezing in all fields, difficult to appreciate crackles.
Cardiovascular distant heart sounds with no murmurs, gallops
or rubs noted.  Abdomen positive bowel sounds, distended and
tight, but no fluid wave, no hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities
no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Normal peripheral pulses.
Neurologic was intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  Peak CK 1500.  White count 16.5, hematocrit
39.3, platelets 183.  Sodium 138, potassium 4.4, chloride
104, bicarb 28, BUN 17, creatinine 1.0, glucose 122.  Normal
LFTs.  UA showed small blood, positive nitrite, positive
leukocyte esterase, more than 100 WBC, 20 to 30 RBC.  EKG
showed normal sinus rhythm, T wave inversions in leads 2, 3
and aVF and development of progressive Q waves in leads 2, 3
and aVF.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient underwent cardiac
catheterization which showed right atrial pressure of 19,
pulmonary artery pressure of 51/30, pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure (PCWP) of 27, cardiac output of 4.6, cardiac index
of 2.0.  Patient showed left dominant system and one vessel
disease with totally occluded mid-circumflex just after large
obtuse marginal.  Patient's left sided PDA filled via left to
left collaterals.  PTCA and stenting were done with no
residual stenosis and TIMI 3 flow.  LV-gram was not performed
due to reported creatinine of 1.6 at the outside hospital.
Patient had a chest x-ray which showed bilateral opacities
consistent with pulmonary edema, no hyperinflation.

1.  Cardiovascular.  The patient is status post PTCA and
stenting of mid-circumflex, status post inferior posterior MI
[**97**] hours prior to presentation complicated by hypotension and
bradycardia, still requiring pressors during cardiac
catheterization.  Upon transfer from the cardiac
catheterization lab, aspirin, Plavix and Integrilin were
continued.  Patient was started on Lipitor.  Cardiac enzymes
were cycled q.eight hours and were followed to the peak.  It
was postulated that patient's persistent hypotension was due
to heightened vagal tone since there was no evidence of right
sided MI by cardiac catheterization.  Patient was
subsequently weaned off Neo-Synephrine and was started on ACE
inhibitor which he tolerated well.  Initially beta blockers
were held due to presumed COPD exacerbation, although patient
does not have an official diagnosis of COPD.  Patient was
given Lasix 20 mg p.o. once and showed good urinary output
response to that, since patient did appear in mild pulmonary
edema.  However, most of patient's wheezing and shortness of
breath were secondary to pulmonary etiology.  Patient has
done very well in the intensive care unit and was
subsequently transferred to the general medical floor.
Patient was started on a low dose beta blocker and tolerated
that well.  Patient is to have cardiology followup.  It was
suggested that patient could follow up with a physician at
[**Hospital1 69**], however, patient
preferred to have followup set up by his primary care
physician in his community.

2.  Pulmonary.  The patient does not have a documented
history of COPD, however, given his extensive history of
smoking and extensive wheezing and good response to
bronchodilators, patient most likely does have COPD.  Patient
was given continuous neb treatments which we were able to
change to metered dose inhalers.  Patient did receive
appropriate education about their use.  Patient would greatly
benefit from outpatient pulmonary function tests for proper
diagnosis of COPD.  Patient received excessive education on
the necessity of quitting smoking.  That was done repeatedly
during daily conversations with the patient.

3.  GI.  The patient was treated with Protonix for
prophylaxis.

4.  Renal.  The patient received Mucomyst pre-cath and
post-cath.  Patient's creatinine and electrolytes remained
stable throughout the hospitalization.

5.  ID.  The patient had E.coli UTI per records from the
outside hospital.  Patient was started on Levaquin at the
outside hospital.  Here the antibiotic was changed to Bactrim
which patient is to take for the few consecutive days during
his hospitalization.

6.  Anxiety.  The patient was continued on Xanax and Paxil.

7.  Nutrition.  The patient is to follow a cardiac, low
sodium diet.  The patient received extensive education about
the importance of adhering to this diet regimen.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Status post myocardial infarction.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Aspirin.
2.  Plavix.
3.  Toprol XL 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4.  Lipitor 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.
5.  Lis