Admission Date: [**2169-1-9**]        Discharge Date: [**2169-1-31**]

Date of Birth:  [**2095-1-26**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73 year old
woman, status post a motor vehicle accident in [**2168-1-10**], during which she was not injured, but she went to the
local Emergency Room.  A chest x-ray done at that time looked
suspicious and a follow up CAT scan was obtained which showed
a thoraco-abdominal aneurysm.  She was advised to see a
cardiothoracic surgeon, which she did, following which she
was scheduled for a thoraco-abdominal aneurysm repair.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient's past medical history is
significant for hypertension, hypercholesterolemia,
osteoarthritis, non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and
low back pain.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Past surgical history is significant
for a left breast lumpectomy, a cholecystectomy, right hand
ganglion resection and a T and A.

MEDICATIONS:  Meds at home include Avandia, 4 mg q a.m.;
aspirin, 81 mg daily; Toprol, 10 mg daily; Lipitor, 10 mg
daily; Hydrochlorothiazide, 12.5 mg daily; and Celebrex,
which the patient stopped prior to admission.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Smokes one half to one pack of cigarettes
per day times 33 years.  Occasional ETOH use.  Denies any
other recreational drug use.  She has three children and
lives with her husband.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father died of an MI.  Mother died of old
age.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Weight 214 pounds, height 5 feet 4
inches.  Vital signs:  Temperature 98.9.  Heart rate 81.
Blood pressure 137/58.  Respiratory rate 18.  O2 sat 97
percent on room air.  General:  No acute distress.
Neurologic:  Alert and oriented times four.  No focal
deficits.  Respiratory:  Respiratory clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1
and S2.  Abdomen:  Soft and nontender, non-distended with
normoactive bowel sounds and a well healed cholecystectomy
scar.  No bruits appreciated.  Extremities:  Warm and well
perfused with no ulcers and bilateral lower extremity edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 10.6, hematocrit 41, platelets
215.  Sodium 145, potassium 4.2, chloride 107, CO2 31, BUN
18, creatinine 0.8, glucose 110.  LFT's within normal limits.
Albumin 4.6.

UA was negative.

Chest x-ray showed no cardiopulmonary processes and the
patient was consented for a thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On the first of [**Month (only) 956**] the past was
brought to the operating room.  Please see the OR report for
full details.  In summary, the patient had a thoracoabdominal
aneurysm resection and replacement of the descending aorta
with a number 28 Hemashield graft from the distal left
subclavian to the suprailiac.  She tolerated the operation
and was transferred from the operating room to the
Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.  At the time of transfer
the patient was in sinus rhythm at 70 beats per minute with a
mean arterial pressure of 71 and a CVT of 15.  The patient
did well in the immediate postoperative period.  Her
anesthesia was reversed.  The sedation was weaned to the
point where the patient was following commands and moving all
four extremities, and then her sedation was reinstated.  She
remained ventilated throughout the course of the operative
day, requiring nitroglycerin and Propofol to maintain an
adequate blood pressure.

On postoperative day the patient continued to do well.  By
chest x-ray it appeared that the patient had a left-sided
infiltrate and a bronchoscopy was done at that time which
showed both left upper and left lower lobe mucous plugging,
following which the patient's oxygenation remained a problem,
and therefore she was a slow wean from the ventilator.

On postoperative day two the patient remained hemodynamically
stable.  She continued to slowly wean from the ventilator.
However, she did have periods of atrial fibrillation for
which she was begun on beta blockade, as well as Amiodarone.
Additionally the patient underwent a second bronchoscopy,
which showed tenacious secretions in both left upper and
lower airways.  Finally the patient was cardioverted from
atrial fibrillation into sinus rhythm.

On postoperative day three the patient continued to do well.
She unfortunately went back into atrial fibrillation
following a short run of sinus rhythm after cardioversion.
She continued to slowly wean from her vaso-active
medications.  We were unable to make any progress in her
ventilatory status, and neurologically the patient's sedation
was held to the point where she would follow commands and
move all extremities.  However, she became increasingly
agitated and required re-sedation.

Over the next several days, the patient remained
hemodynamically stable.  Several attempts were made to wean
the patient from the ventilator, however they were all
unsuccessful.

On postoperative day six the patient again underwent a
bronchoscopy, during which cultures were obtained and sent to
the laboratory.  The bronchoscopy again showed left upper
lobe secretions that were tenacious and a clear right airway.

Over the next several days the patient remained
hemodynamically stable.  The decision was made to bronch the
patient on a daily basis, following which several attempts
were again made to wean the patient from the ventilator.
Each attempt was unsuccessful.

By postoperative day 13 the patient was able to be weaned to
pressure support ventilation with 5 of pressure support and 5
of PEEP support.  The patient tolerated this well.
Throughout the day she was rested on increased pressure
support overnight and the following morning returned to [**4-13**]
and extubated.  The patient failed extubation after several
hours, was reintubated.  Bronchoscopy was done at that time
that showed patent right upper and lower lobes, and
completely obstructed left lower lobe with mucous plugs in
the left upper lobe as well.  At that time the patient
additionally required PEEP 12 in order to oxygenate
adequately and a plan was made for the patient to undergo a
tracheostomy on the following day.

On [**2169-1-26**] the patient underwent tracheostomy with a
number 8 Pore-Tex.  The procedure was tolerated well and
there were no complications.  Following tracheostomy the
patient was able to be placed back on pressure support
ventilation, and within several days was successfully weaned
to trach collar vent, tolerating placement of the
tracheostomy.

The patient was seen by the speech and swallow service.  On
the [**1-30**] she underwent a bedside swallow
evaluation, as well as a video assisted swallow evaluation,
which she passed without restriction.  Her diet was advanced
at that time.  At that time the decision was made that the
patient was stable and ready to be transferred to
rehabilitation.  Rehabilitation screening process was done.

At the time of this dictation, which is the [**1-31**],
the patient's physical exam is as follows:
General:  No acute distress.  Neurological:  Alert and
oriented and moves all extremities.  Follows commands.
Respiratory:  The patient with a number 8 Pore-Tex trach
ventilating with a 40 percent trach mask, coarse breath
sounds throughout, somewhat diminished in the left lower
lobe.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2
with no murmurs.  Left thoracoabdominal incision with
staples.  Small areas of erythema but no drainage.  Abdomen:
Soft and nontender and non-distended with normoactive bowel
sounds.  Extremities:  Warm and well perfused with 1 plus
bilateral edema.  The skin additionally a red, yeasty-looking
rash in the groin and the buttocks, currently being treated
with Miconazole powder.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 12.5, hematocrit 32, platelets
325, PT 14, PTT 25, INR 1.3.  Sodium 134, potassium 4.6,
chloride 96, CO2 30, BUN 41, creatinine 0.8, glucose 127.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient's condition at the time
of discharge is good.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Status post thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair with a number
   28 Hemashield graft from the distal left subclavian to the
   suprailiac done on [**1-10**].
2. Status post tracheostomy with a number 8 Pore-Tex done on
   [**1-26**].
3. Hypertension.
4. Hyper