Admission Date:  [**2145-11-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2145-12-2**]


Service:  MEDICINE, [**Location (un) 259**] FIRM

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77-year-old
female with a history of diverticular bleeding, coronary
artery disease, atrial valve replacement on Coumadin, who
presented with passing clots per rectum for three days.  The
patient had been having bright red blood per rectum two weeks
prior to admission, but this had worsened over several days
prior to admission.

She denied fever, chills, nausea, vomiting.  No chest pain.
No shortness of breath.  No recent antibiotic use.  Her
baseline hematocrit is 38-41.  She denied taking Coumadin the
night before admission.

In the Emergency Room, she was noted to have continued bright
red blood per rectum measuring approximately 300-400 cc.  Her
hematocrit on arrival was 37.9; four hours after arrival was
37.0.

In the Emergency Room, she was given 1 L of intravenous
fluids but no FFP or Vitamin K.  She was hemodynamically
stable and transferred to the floor.  Incidentally she had an
appointment scheduled for the day after admission with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 15505**] for her hemorrhoids.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Sigmoid diverticulosis seen on
colonoscopy in [**2144-7-2**].  2.  Atrial fibrillation.  3.
Status post atrial valve replacement, St. Jude's valve.  4.
Coronary artery disease.  5.  Hypertension.  6.  Diabetes
mellitus type 2.  7.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
8.  Congestive heart failure.  9.  Status post appendectomy.
10.  Status post partial thyroidectomy.  11.  Status post
oophorectomy.  12.  Hypercholesterolemia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d.,
Glyburide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d., Lopressor 37.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d., Captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Glucophage 500 mg p.o. b.i.d., Serevent 2 puffs b.i.d.,
Zantac 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d.,
Combivent MDI 2 puffs b.i.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN CAUSES A RASH.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives alone.  Her daughter is supportive
and lives in the area.  She has a 20 pack-year tobacco
history and quit many years ago.  No alcohol history.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission temperature
was 98.7??????, blood pressure 140/80, heart rate in the 100-110s
and irregular, respirations 16, oxygen saturation 95% on room
air.  General:  The patient was pleasant and in no acute
distress.  HEENT:  Mucous membranes slightly dry.  Oropharynx
clear.  Pulmonary:  Bibasilar rales.  No wheeze.  Otherwise
clear.  Cardiovascular:  Irregular rate.  Loud S2.  There was
a 1 out of 6 systolic murmur heard at the apex and the left
upper sternal border.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  There
was 1+ edema.  Neurological:  The patient was alert and
oriented times three.  Grossly intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cells 6.9,
hematocrit 37.9, platelet count 172; CHEM7 with a sodium of
131, potassium 4.2, chloride 90, bicarb 29, BUN 15,
creatinine 0.7, glucose 390; INR 5.6; digoxin level 0.6.

Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with a rate of
100, right bundle branch block, poor R-wave progression.
There were no significant changes compared to
electrocardiogram performed on [**2145-2-28**].

IMPRESSION:  This is a 77-year-old female with a history of
diverticulosis, coronary artery disease, St. [**Male First Name (un) 1525**] AVR, who
presented with bright red blood per rectum in the setting of
an increased INR.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was originally admitted to the
General Medicine Floor but continued to pass clots and bright
red blood per rectum.  A repeat hematocrit was checked, and
this was 30.  Her heart rate increased to the 160s, and while
she with good mental status, it was felt that she was at
hight risk for becoming hemodynamically unstable; therefore,
she was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.

1.  Gastrointestinal:  Given the patient's history of
diverticulosis, as well as hemorrhoids, it was felt that
these were the two most likely sources of her
gastrointestinal bleed.

Tagged red cell scans were performed, and neither of these
were diagnostic.  The Gastrointestinal Service was consulted.
A colonoscopy was recommended to visualize the possible
source of the GI bleed, and because the patient became
anxious and went into respiratory distress during the bowel
prep for this procedure, it was not reattempted.  In the end
it was felt that since the patient had colonoscopy only one
year ago that had documented the diverticular disease, it was
felt that a repeat colonoscopy would be poor yield unless she
were to actively rebleed.


In fact, she did not rebleed following her transfer to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit, and the only further treatment
instituted was Anusol HC topically to her perianal area for
her hemorrhoids.  The patient was treated with protime pump
inhibitor while on the Medical Intensive Care Unit, and we
returned her to Zantac following discharge.

Cardiovascular:  It was very difficult to control the
patient's rapid ventricular response to her atrial
fibrillation during her hospitalization.  In the Medical
Intensive Care Unit, increasing doses of Lopressor were
administered up to 75 mg p.o. q.i.d. plus supplemental
Lopressor given intravenously.  Unfortunately this seemed to
incite a mild flare of her chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease as described below under pulmonary.  Therefore, she
was weaned off of Lopressor and started on a Diltiazem drip.
The Diltiazem drip was weaned, and p.o. Cardizem was
instituted for total p.o. dose of Cardizem 90 mg p.o. q.i.d.,
and following discharge, this was changed to Cardizem CD 360
mg p.o. q.d.  Her rate was well controlled with this dose and
ranged from 75 to 90.

We continued the patient's Digoxin and Lipitor.  She was
admitted on Captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d., but this was
decreased to 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. given that her blood
pressure was also well controlled with her Cardizem.

3.  Infectious disease:  The patient was found to have mild
pneumonia.  This was treated with Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o.
q.d. for a 14-day course.  The last day of her Levofloxacin
dose should be [**2145-12-5**].  The patient also had a
urinary tract infection which was found to be Enterococcus
susceptible to Levofloxacin; therefore, Levofloxacin treated
both her pneumonia, as well as her urinary tract infection.

4.  Hematology:  The patient's goal INR is 2.5-3.5 given her
atrial valve replacement with a St. Jude's valve, as well as
her atrial fibrillation.  She was admitted supratherapeutic
with an INR of 5.8.  The patient was given FFP, as well as
Vitamin K to reverse the INR.  Several units of blood were
transfused given the patient's low hematocrit and documented
coronary artery disease, as well as congestive heart failure.

When the patient was transferred from the Medical Intensive
Care Unit to the General Medicine Floor, she was
subtherapeutic on her Coumadin, so we treated her with
Lovenox 80 mg subcue b.i.d.  This should be continued until
her INR reaches 2.5.  On the patient's home dose of Coumadin,
which was 2.5 mg p.o. q.d., the patient's INR stalled at 2.3;
therefore, we increased her Coumadin dose to 3.0 mg q.Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday, and 2.5 mg q.Tuesday, Thursday,


Saturday, and Sunday.  This should be continued until her INR
is therapeutic between 2.5 and 3.5, and when this is
achieved, her Lovenox can be discontinued.

5.  Pulmonary:  As mentioned during the patient's preparation
for colonoscopy, she experience acute respiratory distress.
It was actually unclear exactly why this occurred, but it
could have been secondary to anxiety and underlying
pneumonia, as well as possible contribution from her
underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  She
required intubation for several days, following which she was
extubated successfully without complications.  She was then
treated with nebulized Albuterol and Atrovent and later
weaned off of these and treated with her regular metered dose
inhalers.

As mentioned, the patient had a pneumonia that was treated
with Levofloxacin successf