Admission Date:  [**2109-3-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2109-3-9**]


Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 84-year-old gentleman
sent from [**Hospital3 **] with advanced Parkinson
disease who developed acute respiratory distress and was
found to have a low oxygen saturation at rehabilitation.
Vital signs at rehabilitation were a heart rate of 72, blood
pressure was 140/60, respiratory rate was 24, and temperature
was 100.2.

In the Emergency Department, the patient received Lasix
secondary to rales, and a head computed tomography was
ordered for a change in mental status.  Antibiotics were also
given for a question of aspiration pneumonia.  The patient
was started on levofloxacin and Flagyl.

In the Emergency Department, the patient suddenly became
hypotensive and hypoxic requiring intubation and a dopamine
drip.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history is significant
for)
 1.  Advanced Parkinson disease.
 2.  Status post left pallidotomy in [**2102-2-20**].
 3.  Upper gastrointestinal bleed in [**2107-4-22**].
 4.  Constipation.
 5.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy; status post transurethral
resection of prostate in [**2090**].
 6.  Left rotator cuff tear.
 7.  Left distal radius fracture.
 8.  Low back pain.
 9.  Weight loss.
10.  Anemia.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to ADVIL and VALPROATE.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at the nursing home
consisted of Tylenol, calcium, vitamin D, Sinemet, Cardizem,
Imdur, Mirapex, Seroquel, Senna, Sorbitol, and Neurontin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a holocaust survivor.  He is
married with children in the area.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Physical examination
revealed temperature was 98.2, heart rate was 114, blood
pressure was 94/26, respiratory rate was 26, and oxygen
saturation was 100% on 100% FIO2.  In general, he was a thin
cachectic elderly white male responsive only to noxious
stimuli.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.   Sclerae were anicteric.  The oropharynx was
dry.  Neck examination revealed there was no jugular venous
distention.  No lymphadenopathy.  The neck was supple.  The
chest had poor inspiratory effort but clear to auscultation
otherwise.  Heart examination revealed normal first heart
sounds and second heart sounds.  A 2/6 systolic murmur.  The
abdomen was soft and nontender.  No hepatosplenomegaly.
There was a right easily reducible inguinal hernia.
Extremities were warm with good bilateral pulses and with no
edema.  Neurologic examination revealed pupils were 3 mm and
reactive.  The patient moved all extremities but was unable
to cooperate with examination.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed a white blood cell count was 4.5,
hematocrit was 32.8, and platelets were 423.  Partial
thromboplastin time was 27.3 and INR was 1.3.  Sodium was
138, potassium was 4.5, chloride was 99, bicarbonate was 20,
blood urea nitrogen was 69, creatinine was 2.1, and blood
glucose was 84.  Creatine kinase was 199.  Troponin was less
than 0.3.  His blood gas once intubated was 7.07, PCO2 was
61, and a PO2 was 170; and this was on 100% FIO2.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram showed a
normal sinus rhythm at 90 with no acute ischemic changes.

A chest x-ray showed diffuse bilateral infiltrates which was
later read as metastatic disease.

A head computed tomography showed no acute process but had
old left-sided burr holes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for his respiratory failure and shock.

While in the Intensive Care Unit, the patient remained
intubated and was continued on his levofloxacin and Flagyl
with the addition of ceftriaxone for a question of aspiration
pneumonia and sepsis.  The patient became increasingly
hypotensive requiring vasopressin, dopamine, and
norepinephrine drips.  The patient remained persistently
acidemic.

The patient's condition continued to decline.  At
approximately 7 p.m. on the day of admission, the patient
went into asystole and received cardiopulmonary
resuscitation, atropine, and epinephrine with a transient
return of his heart rate and blood pressure; however, this
once again deteriorated and the patient again went into
asystole.  He was continued with cardiopulmonary
resuscitation, atropine, and epinephrine without a response.


The patient expired at [**2045**], and family members were
notified.  The case was declined by Medical Examiner, and the
family opted not to have an autopsy performed.





                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4561**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 13577**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2109-3-10**]  01:03
T:  [**2109-3-12**]  18:14
JOB#:  [**Job Number 97474**]
