Admission Date:  [**2186-12-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2187-1-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2123-9-9**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Dr. [**Known lastname 38669**] is a 63 year-old right
handed internist who was previously healthy and returned from
a trip to Europe when he developed symtpoms of slurred speech
and unsteady gait.  These symtpoms occurred while he was in
the airport and he had previously noted while in flight the
development of a right sided headache.  His symptoms
improved, but as he was removing luggage from a cab at
approximately 3:00 p.m. he fell to the ground and was found
to be hemiplegic along his left side.  The patient was taken
to [**Hospital6 2561**] where he was intubated for airway
protection and transferred to [**Hospital1 18**] for further management.
An MRI was obtained, which demonstrated large diffusion
abnormality in the right MCA lesion.  Susceptibility scan was
negative and his MRA demonstrated right ICA and right MCA
occlusion.  The patient underwent tissue plasminogen
activator administration just under six hours after the onset
of symptoms with transient improvement in his left sided
paresis.  The patient was noted to be unable to follow
commands, he could localize pain with his right arm and
withdraw his left arm from painful stimulus in a nonspecific
manner and he could also move his right leg more then left.
Tone was decreased in his left lower face.  There were no
examination findings suggestive of deep venous thrombosis on
initial presentation.  The patient was admitted to the
Neurological Intensive Care Unit for further management.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient remained intubated and during
his initial days in the hospital began having episodes of
bradycardia and asystole.  This was thought to be possibly be
related to infarction or edema involving the insular region.
The patient had a lower extremity duplex scan that was
normal.  Follow up head CT had demonstrated a hemorrhagic
conversion of approximately 3 cm of his right MCA infarction.
A transthoracic echocardiogram with bubble study demonstrated
no PFO and a normal EF, however, the patient was unable to
perform specific maneuvers to aid in the recognition of a PFO
and the study was felt to be limited.  The patient underwent
extubation on [**12-28**], but was reintubated on the 25th
after the decision was made to perform a right hemicraniotomy
for decompression of his large MCA infarction.  He was
subsequently extubated on [**12-30**] and transferred to the
floor on [**1-3**].

During his Intensive Care Unit stay he was noted to have
intermittent fevers and had one blood culture that was
positive for staph non-aureus for which he was started on
Vancomycin.  Subsequent blood cultures showed no growth and
it is likely that the initial blood culture was contaminated.

On transfer to the General Neurologic Service the patient's
examination demonstrated that he was awake, alert and had
mild difficulty providing details of recent events.  He was
aware that he had suffered a stroke and could recite the days
events and could also recall remote events without
difficulty.  His speech was slow and slurred and consisted of
short sentence structure.  He had decrease in flexion.  He
was noted to have a right gaze preference and left lower
facial droop.  He was flaccid and hemiplegic on his left
side.  There was a homonymous hemianopsia in his left visual
field.  He had no sensory modalities intact on the left side
and a dense hemi-neglect was present for his left.  The
patient was restarted on aspirin and continued to do well
during the remainder of his hospital stay.  He had evidence
of a mild pneumonia along the left lingular area and his
Vancomycin was discontinued with the addition of
Levofloxacin.  A repeat transthoracic echocardiogram has been
ordered and is to be performed on the day prior to discharge.
 The patient also had a hypercoagulability workup performed
and the results of these studies are pending at the time of
this dictation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Right internal carotid artery occlusion with right middle
cerebral artery ischemic infarction and subsequent left
hemiplegia with left sided neglect.
2.  Pneumonia.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1.  Aspirin 325 q.d.  2.  Tylenol #3
one to two tabs q 4 to 6 hours as needed for neck pain.  4.
Skelaxin 800 mg po t.i.d.  5.  Flexeril 10 mg po q day.  6.
Lipitor 10 mg po q.d.

DISCHARGE DIET:  Low cholesterol diet.  The patient's diet
should include aspiration precautions.

DISCHARGE ACTIVITIES:  As defined by physical therapy.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.

SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS:  The patient has undergone a right
hemicraniotomy and the right cranial region is vulnerable to
compressive injury.  The patient should not sleep or have
pressure applied to the right side of his head.  The patient
should also continue to have deep venous thrombosis
prophylaxis with heparin 5000 units subQ b.i.d. and Venodyne
boots while in bed.  The patient will also likely require a
bowel regimen with Colace 100 mg po b.i.d. and Dulcolax
suppositories as needed.

DISPOSITION:  The patient is to be discharged to a rehab
facility.






                            [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1941**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 37533**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor First Name 38670**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2187-1-9**]  07:35
T:  [**2187-1-9**]  08:01
JOB#:  [**Job Number 38671**]
