Admission Date:  [**2201-2-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2201-2-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2180-7-28**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Location (un) **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Nausea, vomiting, headache, and neck pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 20-year-old
woman with a history of asthma and migraine headaches who
reported nasal congestion and sneezing on Saturday ([**2201-2-21**]) relieved with over-the-counter decongestants who
presented on [**2-23**] with an acute onset of nausea,
vomiting, headache, and neck pain.

The patient was well on the morning of admission.  She went
to her basketball pregame practice without complaints.
However, shortly thereafter around lunch she noticed that her
appetite was poor and that she felt very fatigued.  Prior to
her game that afternoon, she developed the acute onset of
severe nausea and multiple episodes of vomiting.  She then
developed a severe throbbing headache, neck stiffness, and
shortness of breath; at which time she presented to the
Emergency Department.

She denied any photophobia.  She lives in a dormitory at Pine
[**Doctor Last Name **] College and denied any sick contacts at home, or in
school, or on the basketball team.

In the Emergency Department, she received ceftriaxone and
vancomycin.  A lumbar puncture was performed.  Tube #1
revealed 34,375 red blood cells, 58 white blood cells; of
which 94% were polys, 1% lymphocytes, and 5% monocytes.  Tube
#4 revealed 1,960 red blood cells, 4 white blood cells; of
which 98% were polys and 2% lymphocytes.  The protein in the
cerebrospinal fluid was 50, glucose was 69. LDH was 13; and
the Gram stain showed no organisms or polys.  The tap was
felt to be negative, so further etiologies of infection were
investigated.

The patient had complained of severe/severe neck pain, and on
examination in the Emergency Department resident noted some
erythema and exudate in the oropharynx.  The patient was sent
for a computed tomography of the neck without contrast to
rule out a retropharyngeal abscess.  The computed tomography
was negative.

On further investigation in the Emergency Department, review
of systems revealed dysuria for the previous one to two days,
and that the patient was currently menstruating and using
tampons.  In fact, on the day of admission, the patient had a
tampon in place for over 12 hours; at which time the concern
for toxic shock syndrome was raised.  A pelvic examination
was performed, and a vaginal swab was sent for culture in
addition to gonorrhea and chlamydia.

Due to persistent hypotension with systolic blood pressures
in the 90s (even after receiving 6 liters or normal saline)
and fevers to 104, the patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Asthma.
2.  Migraine headaches.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] at Pine [**Doctor Last Name **]
College.  She plays point guard on the basketball team.  She
does not use tobacco, alcohol, or any illicit drugs and
denies any sick contacts.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Paternal grandmother had multiple myeloma.
History of diabetes in the family as well as
hypercholesterolemia.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Review of systems was again significant
for dysuria, vaginal discomfort, sore throat, and minor
dysphagia.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Examination on
admission revealed the patient was febrile up to 103.7, she
was tachycardic in the 120s to 130s, blood pressure was
90s/50s, with a respiratory rate of 34.  She was saturating
100% on room air.  Pertinent physical findings on head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat examination revealed erythema and a
small amount of tonsilar exudate in the oropharynx with
fullness of the carotids bilaterally (which were nontender).
Her neck was very/very tender to passive motion.  There was
no palpable lymphadenopathy, and there was reproducible pain
with palpation in the nape of the neck.  Her heart
examination was regular and tachycardic without murmurs.  Her
lungs were clear bilaterally.  Her abdominal examination was
benign with no suprapubic tenderness.  Her extremities
revealed a small amount of lower extremity edema of
approximately 1+ with 2+ pulses.  Her neurologic examination
revealed negative Kernig and Brudzinski signs.  It was
otherwise nonfocal.  Examination of her skin revealed no skin
rash.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed white blood cell count was 22.7 (with a
differential of 72% neutrophils, 19% bands, 1% lymphocytes,
and 6% monocytes), hematocrit was 36.3, and platelets were
241.  Chemistry-7 was remarkable only for acute renal failure
with a blood urea nitrogen of 17 and creatinine of 1.1.
Coagulations were within normal limits.  Cerebrospinal fluid
studies were reported in the History of Present Illness.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A computed tomography of the neck
revealed no soft tissue fluid collection.

A chest x-ray revealed diffuse interstitial markings which
were thought to possibly represent an atypical pneumonia, a
viral pneumonia, a hypersensitivity pneumonitis, or other
inflammatory process.

MEDICAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT COURSE:  The patient was admitted
to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for further management of
possible sepsis.

Because of the amount of blood persisting through tube #4 in
the lumbar puncture, she was started on acyclovir for the
concern of HSV encephalitis.  HSV/PCR was added on to the
cerebrospinal fluid studies as well.

She was continued on vancomycin and ceftriaxone.  She
remained febrile, requiring frequent Tylenol dosing.
Clindamycin had been added but was discontinued the following
morning, as it was felt to be unnecessary for additional
coverage.  Further blood cultures were sent, and she was
resuscitated with normal saline.  Her fever became better
controlled, and her blood pressure normalized, at which time
she was called out to the Medicine floor.

HOSPITAL COURSE ON [**Location (un) 259**] FIRM:  The patient was called out
to the floor on [**2201-2-25**].

She was still complaining of neck stiffness but reported that
her headache had been under much better control.  She was no
longer feeling feverish nor was she photophobic and denied
any continuation of her nausea and vomiting.  However, she
did still report a decrease in her appetite.

Her complete blood count improved from a white blood cell
count of 22 down to 12.7.  Her hematocrit was noted to drop
from 36 to 27.9; thought to be dilutional but still a very
low hematocrit for a girl of her age.  Hemolysis laboratories
were checked which were negative.

At this time, Infectious Disease was consulted regarding
further management and workup of this patient.  The
laboratory data that had been returned by now revealed urine
culture was negative.  Blood cultures were negative to date
times four.  Gonorrhea and chlamydia cultures were negative.
Culture and sensitivity culture was negative.  Toxic shock
antibody panel was sent, and the HSV/PCR was still pending.

Her creatine kinases were noted to be elevated at 411 with a
MB of 1; thought to be a minor amount of rhabdomyolysis.

Infectious Disease consultation thought that the differential
included the possibility of a severe influenza or other viral
syndrome.  Still considered toxic shock a real possibility
despite the lack of a skin rash.

The following day (on [**2201-2-26**]), the HSV/PCR returned
negative; at which time the acyclovir was discontinued.
Ceftriaxone was discontinued as well as the concern for
meningitis had been ruled out.

The culture from a vaginal swab at this time was positive for
Staphylococcus aureus; making toxic shock syndrome the most
likely diagnosis.  Clindamycin was added to the regimen at
300 mg p.o. t.i.d. and vancomycin was stopped as the
Staphylococcus isolate was sensitive to clindamycin.  The
isolate was sent to [**University/College **] for a toxin assay which will be
followed up by the Infectious Disease Department.

On the day of discharge, the patient had been afebrile for 48
hours.  She has mobilized large amounts of f