Admission Date:  [**2168-11-28**]     Discharge Date:  [**2168-12-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2092-3-27**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 76 year-old female
with coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2153**] and multiple percutaneous interventions
who was brought to the Emergency Department after a witnessed
cardiac arrest.  The patient was in the mall and had a
witness cardiac arrest.  There was bystander CPR at two
minutes and after eight minutes an AED arrived and the
patient was shocked.  CPR continued for five to six minutes
and then EMS arrived.  Initial rhythm was complete heart
block and the patient was treated with epinephrine.  This led
to ventricular tachycardia and the patient was shocked
leading to a rhythm of ventricular fibrillation, which
converted to sinus rhythm after two further shocks.
Electrocardiogram showed inferior ST elevations and lateral
ST depressions.  The patient was intubated and brought to the
Emergency Department.  In the Emergency Department she was
treated with heparin and Integrilin, but this was
discontinued due to coffee ground emesis.  A chest x-ray
showed a right pneumothorax and a chest tube was placed.  The
patient became hypotensive and Dobutamine and Levophed were
started for blood pressure support.  The patient was
transferred to the Coronary Care Unit and the pressors were
weaned off with fluid boluses.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Hyperlipidemia.
3.  Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2153**], multiple PCIs and a redo coronary
artery bypass graft in [**2163**].
4.  Bladder prolapse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Pulse 100 to 120.  Blood
pressure 60 to 80/40 to 60.  Oxygen saturation 86 to 90% on
the ventilator.  Her heart was regular with no murmurs.
There were rhonchorous breath sounds bilaterally.  The
abdomen was benign and there was no edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Coronary
Care Unit status post cardiac arrest and resuscitation.  The
main concern of the family from the time of admission was the
patient's wishes regarding end of life care and previous
discussions suggesting that she wished not to be intubated or
resuscitated.  After extensive discussions with the family it
was determined to give the patient 48 hours to determine,
which direction her neurologic status would go.  The
neurology consult team followed throughout the
hospitalization and while she initially showed some positive
signs by [**12-1**] it appeared that the patient was not
going to make a rapid recovery back to her baseline
functional status as she would have wished.  Additionally the
patient's respiratory status was compromised both by right
pneumothorax secondary to rib fracture sustained during CPR
as well as probable aspiration pneumonia.  On [**12-2**]
another meeting with the patient's two sons and daughter was
held.  They believed firmly that it would be their mother's
wishes to withdraw care as she never wished to have her life
sustained with heroic measures.  Therefore in the afternoon
of [**12-2**] the patient's mechanical ventilation was
discontinued and she quickly had a respiratory arrest.  The
patient was pronounced dead at 2:40 p.m.  The family declines
postmortem examination.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1008**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1009**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 15468**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2168-12-2**]  03:09
T:  [**2168-12-7**]  07:08
JOB#:  [**Job Number 95435**]
