Admission Date:  [**2145-2-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2145-2-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2070-2-11**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. [**Known lastname 34521**] is a 75-year-old
female without any prior cardiac history who presented with
10/10 chest pain.  The patient first noted exertional chest
pain over the last week.  The patient was seen at her primary
care physician's office for evaluation of upcoming rectocele
surgery and was noted to have electrocardiographic changes
from prior EKGs two years ago.  The patient underwent an
exercise stress test on Friday which was reported as positive
with ischemic changes shortly after initiation of the study.
The patient reported that she received sublingual
Nitroglycerin and had plans for cardiac catheterization early
next week.  The patient states that at 5:30 p.m., she
suddenly developed 10/10 chest pain while at rest.  She took
sublingual Nitroglycerin without relief and went to the
Emergency Room.  She was started on aspirin, Heparin,
nitrates, and 2B3A inhibitor without relief of pain.
Electrocardiogram showed anterior T wave inversion, poor R
wave progression, and she was transferred to [**Hospital6 1760**] for cardiac catheterization.

At cardiac catheterization, she was found to have 100%
occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery.
The patient received percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty with stent to the proximal left anterior
descending artery and percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty to the D-1 where the thrombus extended.
Apparently the patient was noted to have a small amount of
coffee ground emesis while down in the catheterization
laboratory.  She was continued on 2B3A inhibitor and
transferred to the Coronary Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The past medical history revealed
hypertension and anxiety/depression.

MEDICATIONS:  Verapamil SR 100 mg q. day, Spironolactone,
Hydrochlorothiazide, aspirin, Selenium, Zoloft.

ALLERGIES:  Ceclor.

FAMILY HISTORY:  There is no coronary artery disease in the
family.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  There is a remote tobacco history.  The
patient has occasional alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs revealed blood pressure
130/80, pulse 76, respirations 20, pulse oximetry 98% on 2
liters nasal cannula.  In general, the patient was resting in
bed in no apparent distress.  HEENT examination revealed
clear oropharynx, anicteric sclerae, moist mucous membranes.
The neck revealed no jugular venous distention.  The carotids
were 2+, no bruits.  Cardiac examination revealed regular
rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs, gallops, or
rub.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended with
positive bowel sounds.  The extremities revealed no pedal
edema.  There were 2+ dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis
pulses bilaterally.  The extremities were warm.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory studies from the outside
hospital revealed white blood cell count 5.9, hematocrit 39,
platelets 267,000, sodium 137, potassium 3.5, chloride 95,
bicarbonate 27, BUN 15, creatinine 1, glucose 125, INR 1,
troponin 0.09.  Electrocardiogram per report from the outside
hospital revealed up-sloping ST segments with T wave
inversions in V2 through V3.  There was poor R wave
progression.  The electrocardiogram after catheterization
revealed resolution of up-sloping ST segments.  T wave
inversions were present in V1 through V4 with possible
biphasic T wave in V4.  Chest x-ray from the outside hospital
revealed no effusion, no infiltrate, and no evidence of
congestive heart failure or cardiomegaly.

Catheterization revealed moderate anterior lateral
hypokinesis with an ejection fraction of 50%.  There was a
100% proximal LAD with thrombus filling.  LAD filling was via
collaterals right to left.  There was 40% right coronary
artery stenosis.  The left anterior descending artery was 0%
status post stent placement.  The D-1 revealed 30% after
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE
Coronary artery disease:  The patient tolerated
catheterization well.  She remained on Integrelin for 18
hours and was started on Plavix.  The patient's
antihypertensive medications were changed from Verapamil and
Hydrochlorothiazide to Lopressor and Captopril which were
titrated up as tolerated.  The patient was started on a daily
aspirin and continued on Plavix.  The patient had no further
episodes of chest pain.  She was seen by physical therapy and
found to have good exercise tolerance.  The patient had a
mild elevation of her troponin to 4.3 post catheterization.
Her CKs peaked at 180.

Arrhythmia:  The patient had a 7-8 beat episode of
ventricular tachycardia within 24 hours of the
revascularization.  The patient was noted to have an ejection
fraction of 50% on ventriculography.  The patient remained on
telemetry for another 24-36 hours with no further episodes of
prolonged ventricular tachycardia.

Gastrointestinal:  The patient was noted to have a small
amount of coffee ground emesis in the catheterization
laboratory and had nausea on admission to the Coronary Care
Unit.  The patient had nasogastric lavage with a small amount
of coffee ground emesis that cleared after 100 cc of normal
saline lavage.  The patient's hematocrit was 39 at the
outside hospital and was 34 post catheterization.  The
patient remained on Prilosec 40 mg b.i.d. and her hematocrit
remained stable.  The patient was discharged on Prilosec 40
mg q. day and was told to follow up with her primary care
physician.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q. day, Atenolol
25 mg p.o. q. day, Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q. day, Plavix 75 mg
p.o. q. day, aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day, Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.
day, Prilosec 40 mg p.o. q. day.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Non-Q wave myocardial infarction.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4786**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 16516**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2145-2-23**]  20:23
T:  [**2145-2-24**]  19:50
JOB#:  [**Job Number 34522**]

cc:[**Numeric Identifier 34523**]