Admission Date:  [**2153-3-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2153-4-5**]


Service:  Plastics

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 40291**] is an 86-year-old
gentleman with a history of laryngeal cancer, status post
laryngectomy, right radical neck dissection, with
postoperative radiation therapy two years ago, with a second
course of radiation therapy for question of a recurrence.
The patient has since developed an orocutaneous fistula which
has been resistant to local wound care and an advancement
flap.

The patient now presents with a large orocutaneous fistula
anteriorly to the left neck measuring approximately 7 cm X
8 cm with saliva and purulent discharge. The patient was
noted to have a large volume of bleeding from the wound
earlier in the day, at which time the patient was transferred
to the [**Hospital1 **] for further evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Laryngeal cancer.
2.  Coronary artery disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Laryngectomy.
2.  Radical neck dissection.
3.  G-tube placement.
4.  Aortic valve replacement.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. Monday
through Friday and 5 mg p.o. on Saturday and Sunday, Roxicet
elixir for pain

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  At the time of
admission, the patient was awake and alert, in no apparent
distress.  He was afebrile with stable vital signs.  On head
and neck, his cranial nerve examinations were all intact.
There was a 7-cm X 8-cm orocutaneous fistula anteriorly over
the left neck with saliva and purulent discharge extruding
from the wound.  The laryngeal stoma was intact.  The airway
was secured.  His lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  His heart had a regular rate and rhythm.  His
abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  A G-tube
secured in place.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Because of the nature of this wound, and
near exposure of the left carotid artery, Neurosurgery was
consulted for angiography to rule out any carotid bleeding
given this patient's history of a large amount of blood
extruding from the wound.  The angiography was performed, and
there was no sign of any pseudoaneurysm, dissection, or
extravasation.

An incidental finding was noted on CT.  The patient had
bilateral subdural hematomas.  At the time of admission, the
patient's INR was 2.9, and he was being anticoagulated for
his prosthetic aortic valve.  At this point, the patient
began receiving blood products to reverse his INR in
anticipation of the patient needing surgical correction for
his neck as well as potential subdural hematomas.  While this
was being done, the patient developed congestive heart
failure but rapidly responded to Lasix and did not require
any ventilatory support.

On hospital day five, the patient had been adequately
reversed and was taken to the operating room by the
Otolaryngology team where he underwent biopsies of the
margins to insure there was no remaining cancer prior to
placement of a flap for closure of this wound.  Biopsy
results of the wound were negative for any remaining signs of
malignancy.

At this point, it was decided by the Neurosurgery team that,
despite the patient's subdural hematomas, the patient was
suffering no neurologic compromise.  There were no radiologic
findings to suggest midline shift, and it was decided at this
point that the patient would be of significant risk and of
decreased benefit with the hematomas.

Over the next several days the patient was seen by the
Physical Therapy team and the Nutrition team as the patient
was prepared for operative repair of his orocutaneous
fistula.

On [**3-26**], the patient was taken to the operating room where
he underwent left pectoralis myocutaneous skin flap for
closure of the orocutaneous fistula.  The patient tolerated
the procedure well, and there were no perioperative
complications.  The patient was taken to the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit overnight for observation and monitoring
of flap.  The patient had no problems in the immediate
perioperative period and was therefore transferred to the
floor on postoperative day one.

At this point, the patient's tube feeds were restarted, and
the patient was begun on his home medications as well as
restarted on heparin and Coumadin while waiting for the
patient to become adequately anticoagulated in the setting of
his prosthetic aortic valve.  The patient was also treated
with penicillin and Ancef postoperatively.

The patient's pectoralis donor site was initially managed
with a bulb suction drain.  Over the next couple of days, the
patient continued to do well.  His rotational flap continued
to thrive, with the only concern being that the level where
his tracheostomy appeared to be causing some necrosis at the
level of the right lateral inferior aspect of the flap.
Otolaryngology was consulted, and it was decided the patient
did not need a tracheostomy as the patient had a very mature
stoma.  After the tracheostomy was removed, the patient
continued to do well; and, again, the flap continued to
thrive.

On postoperative day six, the patient developed a large left
chest wall hematoma and had to be taken to the operating room
for evacuation.  The bulb suction drain which had been
draining the chest wound had been discharged two days
previously.  The drainage output from the drain prior to it
being removed had been less than 15 cc per day for the two
previous days prior to it being removed.  Again, the patient
tolerated evacuation well with no perioperative
complications. The patient did receive 2 units of packed red
blood cells, as the patient's hematocrit during this bleeding
episode had dropped to 26.  The patient responded
appropriately increasing his hematocrit to 30.

Over the next two days, the patient continued to rapidly
improve.  He was seen by the Physical Therapy Department and
began ambulating with assistance.  From a nutritional
standpoint he continued to do well on his tube feeds.

On postoperative day nine, the patient had a barium swallow
performed which revealed no signs of any leakage or
persistent orocutaneous fistula.  At this point, the patient
was begun on soft solids, and swallow consultation was
obtained. Also at this time, the patient's antibiotics were
changed from penicillin and Ancef to clindamycin, and the
patient was deemed medically stable and ready for discharge
to a rehabilitation facility.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  The patient was stable at the time
of discharge.  His orocutaneous skin flap was doing well.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient was to be discharged to an
acute rehabilitation facility.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Clindamycin 300 mg per G-tube q.i.d.
 2.  Acetaminophen 325 mg to 650 mg per G-tube q.4-6h. p.r.n.
 3.  Ascorbic acid 500 mg per G-tube b.i.d.
 4.  Tocopheryl 400 IU per G-tube q.d.
 5.  Zinc sulfate 220 mg per G-tube q.d.
 6.  Metoprolol 25 mg per G-tube b.i.d.
 7.  Albuterol 1 to 2 puffs per stoma q.4h. p.r.n. for
wheezing.
 8.  Artificial Tears 1 to 2 drop OU p.r.n.
 9.  Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. Monday through Friday and 5 mg
p.o. q.d. on Saturday and Sunday.
10.  Dulcolax  per G-tube b.i.d.
11.  Roxicet elixir 5 mL to 10 mL per G-tube q.4-6h. p.r.n.
12.  G-tube feedings with ProMod fiber full strength at 80 cc
per hour with a plan to wean the tube feeds as the patient's
oral intake is gradually increased.

DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP:  The patient was to see Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] in
clinic in one week for followup.





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 8332**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8333**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 40292**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2153-4-4**]  18:03
T:  [**2153-4-5**]  09:12
JOB#:  [**Job Number 40293**]

RP [**2153-4-5**]
