Admission Date:  [**2191-10-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2191-10-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2116-7-3**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Cardiothor

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 75 year old Spanish
speaking female with a past medical history significant for
poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and
peripheral vascular disease, who presents with a two week
history of intermittent chest pressure and pain radiating to
the left arm.  This pain began around two weeks prior to
admission, which was [**9-20**], while she was watching the
coverage of the World Trade Center attack.  She describes the
sensation as pressure in the chest, substernal, radiating to
the arm where it becomes more crushing.  The onset was
unpredictable but more often with exertion; not associated
with diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting or shortness of breath.
She denies any prior history of chest pain or pressure as
well as denying acid-reflux indigestion or any recent
illnesses.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  She was ruled out for myocardial infarction
with negative CPK times three.  The patient was found to have
a positive stress test.  Cardiac catheterization was
performed on [**10-14**] which revealed an ejection fraction
of 60% with normal valves, 20% stenosis of the proximal right
coronary artery, 20% stenosis of the mid- right coronary
artery, 90% of the distal right coronary artery, 90% of the
right PDA, 90% of the right PL, 80% of mid left anterior
descending, 50% of the first diagonal and 100% of the obtuse
marginal.

Cardiothoracic Surgery was called to the Catheterization
Laboratory to see the patient after stenting of her right
coronary artery and diagonal and left anterior descending
with a tamponade and cardiogenic shock, bleeding around 1300
cc in three to four hours, and a pH of 7.1, base access
negative 17 on Dopamine.  She was taken emergently to the
Operating Room for exploration.

Preoperative diagnosis was cardiac tamponade with
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.
Postoperative diagnosis was a cardiac perforation times two.
The patient underwent a sternotomy and repair of cardiac
perforations times two [**2191-10-14**].  A hole was found in
the acute marginal pumping blood from the right ventricle, as
well as a hole in the obtuse marginal in the V1 distribution
which was bleeding.  The holes were repaired and there was no
other further intervention necessary.

On postoperative day one status post repair of cardiac
trauma, the patient was in atrial fibrillation on Pronestyl
and Lopressor, temperature maximum of 101.5 F., to current of
101.5 F.; heart rate of 86; blood pressure of 106/82;
respirations 11, saturating at 99%.  PA pressures of 49/31,
cardiac output 3.6, cardiac index of 2, CVP of 20 on vent
settings of IMV of 600, 10, 0.5, and 5 PEEP.  Last gas 7.46,
32, 112, 23, and zero.  Chest tube outputs 475 over the last
24 hours.  White count of 13.5, hematocrit of 32.5, platelet
count of 151,000.  Sodium 144, potassium 4.3, BUN 18,
creatinine 1.1, glucose 139, calcium 8.5, magnesium 1.7,
phosphate 4.3.

On physical examination, the patient was alert.  She was
following commands.  Lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm with the
incision clean, dry and intact.  Abdomen was soft and
nontender.  Extremities were warm.  Plan was to decrease the
Profadol, to continue Pronestyl, and to check the Procaine
and Napa levels.  The patient was to get an EKG this morning;
discontinue the chest tubes and Lasix in the morning, wean to
extubate and start p.o. medications after extubation.
Continue to diurese and transfer to the floor.

Postoperative day two, the patient on Amiodarone and
Neo-Synephrine with temperature of 100.2 F., current of 100.0
F.; heart rate of 72 in normal sinus rhythm; blood pressure
112/70; respirations 23; saturating at 95%.  Cardiac output
5.06, index of 2.92, PA pressures of 47/29; CVP of 19 with an
SVR of 870.  Vent settings:  She is on C-PAP of 10, 5 and 60.
Last arterial blood gas 7.43, 31, 10.  Chest tubes put out
800 cc in the last 24 hours, 50 cc in the last hour.
Neurologically, on physical examination, the patient opened
her eyes and followed commands.  Heart was regular rate and
rhythm.  Chest is clear to auscultation bilaterally with
incision clean, dry and intact.  Abdomen was soft.
Extremities with mild trace edema.  Hematocrit of 32.6,
platelet count of 191,000, sodium of 143, potassium 4.3, BUN
30, creatinine 1.6 with glucose of 188, PT of 14.4.  Plan was
to continue Nitroglycerin drip and continue diuresis.
Respiratory-wise the decrease of FIO2 to 50 and attempt
extubation and to discontinue the chest tube.

Postoperative day three, the patient was converted to normal
sinus rhythm with Amiodarone from her atrial fibrillation.
The temperature maximum of 100.6 F.; temperature current of
99.5 F.; the patient's heart rate is 75 in normal sinus
rhythm; blood pressure 109/68; respirations 15, saturating at
96%.  CVP of 16, cardiac output 4.2, index of 2.28 with an
SVR of 1299, ventilator was on C-PAP and pressure support of
0.5, 8 and 5.  The patient on an Amiodarone drip,
Nitroglycerin, Coumadin, sliding scale insulin, Lasix, Ceptaz
and Levofloxacin.  On physical examination, the patient opens
eyes to commands.  Heart was regular rate and rhythm.  Wounds
were clean, dry and intact.  Sternum stable.  Lungs are clear
to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen was softly distended,
but nontender.  Extremities had one plus edema and they were
warm.  Plan was to check chest x-ray, consider bronchoscopy,
continue vent settings with C-PAP, continue Lasix.
Infectious Disease wise, continue Levofloxacin and Ceptaz and
check cultures.

Postoperative day four, the patient was found to have right
lower lobe pneumonia with Gram negative rods.  Temperature
maximum 100.2 F., temperature current 99.9 F.; heart 74 in
normal sinus rhythm; blood pressure 106/52; respirations 16,
saturating at 98%.  CVP of 9, output of 5.1, index of 2.95
with an SVR of 1114.  The patient on C-PAP and pressure
support, 0.5, 8 and 5; last gas 7.49, 40, 154, 31 and 7.  The
patient on Ceptaz, Levofloxacin, Amiodarone, Nitroglycerin
and Lasix.  White count of 13,000, hematocrit of 37, platelet
count of 243,000.  Sodium 141, potassium 3.3, BUN 27,
creatinine 1.2.  On physical examination, the patient was
awake, following commands.  Heart was regular rate and rhythm
with wounds clean, dry and intact.  Respirations:  She had
coarse breath sounds bilaterally.  Abdomen was soft,
nontender, nondistended.  Extremities were warm with trace
edema.  Plan was to continue pain control, wean the
Nitroglycerin, repeat the chest x-ray and continue pulmonary
toilet.  Continue the Ceptaz and Levofloxacin.

On postoperative day five, the patient's temperature maximum
99.3 F.; heart rate 75 in sinus rhythm; blood pressure 124/61
on Nitroglycerin.  Sodium 139, potassium 3.7, BUN 23, white
count of 10,000, hematocrit 31, platelet count of 275,000.
On physical examination, incisions were clean, dry and
intact.  The sternum was stable.  Chest x-ray was improved.
Plan is to extubate the patient and to transfer to the Floor.
Cardiac Surgery addendum postoperative day five, the patient
with complaints of chest pain that she described as
incisional and different from her angina preoperatively.  EKG
showed less than 1 mm depressions in the lateral leads.
Cardiac enzymes were sent.  Troponin was 12.5.  Pacing wires
were discontinued.  Plan was to transfer the patient to
Cardiology for further management.  Surgical clips were to be
discontinued postoperative day number 14.

The plan was discussed with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].  So the patient was
transferred with the diagnoses of:

1.  Cardiac perforation times two status post percutaneous
    transluminal coronary angioplasty.

TRANSFER MEDICATIONS:  The patient was transferred to the
Cardiac Care Unit on the following medications:
1.  Amiodarone 400 three times a day
2.  Nitroglycerin drip.
3.  Diamox 500 q. six.
4.  Combivent four puffs q. six.
5.  Levofloxacin 250 q. day.
6.  Ceptaz two grams intravenously q. 12.
7.  Protonix 40 mg intrave