Admission Date:  [**2191-7-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2191-8-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2115-8-16**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:   Acute anterior myocardial infarction.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 75 year old white
female with a past medical history significant for diabetes
mellitus, hypertension and peripheral vascular disease, who
now presents with acute anterior myocardial infarction.

The patient presented to her primary care physician yesterday
complaining of mild aches between her breasts and dyspnea on
exertion.  EKG at that time revealed new onset atrial
fibrillation and the patient was sent home with instructions
for follow-up with Cardiology today.

She presented to [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Department at 5 a.m. today with acute respiratory
distress with tachypnea to the 30s, decreased blood pressure,
diaphoresis and chest pain.  EKG with ST elevations in the
anterior leads.  She was soon intubated and taken emergently
to the Catheterization Laboratory.

There, she was found to have a total occlusion of the mid-
left anterior descending, subtotal mid occlusion of the left
circumflex, and 95% mid right coronary artery with
cardiogenic shock.  Three stents were placed and the patient
was started on a dopamine drip secondary to decreased blood
pressure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diabetes mellitus, adult onset.
3.  Peripheral vascular disease.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day.
2.  Calcium carbonate 500 mg p.o. q. day.
3.  Univasc 30 mg p.o. q. day.

ALLERGIES:   The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a positive tobacco history,
no next of [**Doctor First Name **], and lives in a group home.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown with no next of [**Doctor First Name **].

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Significant for dry mouth and urinary
frequency.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.2 F.; blood pressure
178/44; heart rate 79; breathing 16; 100% on room air.
Ventilator settings, SMIV at total volume of 500, respiratory
rate of 16, PEEP of 5 and pressure support of 5.  100% O2.
Telemetry showing normal sinus rhythm with multi-focal atrial
tachycardia.  In general, this is an intubated and sedated
patient, pale, frail, elderly female.  HEENT:  Endotracheal
tube in place.  Mucous membranes were moist.  Unresponsive.
Neck examination:  No jugular venous distention and no
carotid bruits.  Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Cardiovascular examination is irregularly irregular,
tachycardic with no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdominal
examination is soft, nontender, nondistended, normal bowel
sounds.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities with no edema,
cool extremities with no palpable lower extremity pulses.
One plus radial pulses bilaterally.  No unusual rashes.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 23.7, hematocrit 34.6,
platelets 565.  Sodium 134, potassium 4.1, chloride 101, CO2
18, BUN 21, creatinine 1.3.  Glucose 410.  Calcium 8.0,
magnesium 1.7, phosphorus 6.4.

Urinalysis was negative.  Creatinine kinase was taken at 9
a.m. with a value of 3,063, an MB fraction of 66.

Arterial blood gas revealed a pH of 7.27, pCO2 of 43 and a
pO2 of 162.

Chest x-ray revealed increased interstitial markings,
perihilar air space opacities, upper zone redistribution
consistent with congestive heart failure, status post
myocardial infarction.

EKG revealing normal sinus rhythm with a ventricular rate of
approximately 110, normal axis, ST elevations in V3 through
V5.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In summary, this is a 75 year old white
female with a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
peripheral vascular disease, now with an acute anterior
myocardial infarction status post stent times three via
catheterization.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient was initially placed on
Integrilin with heparin and started on aspirin and Plavix as
well as Pravachol.  Her initial hypotension did not allow a
beta blocker or ACE inhibitor at the time.  Her pump function
on admission revealed cardiogenic shock.

She was placed on an intra-aortic balloon pump.  Her rhythm
of atrial fibrillation was attempted to cardiovert on
hospital day #2, but continued to alternate between a
multifocal atrial tachycardia and normal sinus rhythm.  Her
Levophed and Dopamine were eventually weaned on hospital day
number four.  Her balloon pump was discontinued on hospital
day number five.

An echocardiogram performed on hospital day number five
revealed a mildly dilated left atrium, apical akinesis with
basal hypokinesis and distal septal dyskinesis, two plus
mitral regurgitation and mild PA systolic hypertension,
possible small pericardial effusion and an ejection fraction
of approximately 20 to 25%.

A low dose beta blocker and low dose ACE inhibitor was added
on hospital day number six.  All pressors were off at this
time but the patient continued to revert into atrial
fibrillation.  She was placed on a heparin drip for
anti-coagulation for her atrial fibrillation.  On hospital
day number ten, she was noted to have a profound drop in her
blood pressures.  A Swan-Ganz catheter was placed and
pressors were once again started to maintain a normotensive
blood pressure.  Her beta blocker and ACE inhibitor were
discontinued at this time.

Her Swan-Ganz data revealed fluid overload at the time and
she was gently diuresed.  She was pulled off pressors on
hospital day number 16 once again and a low dose ACE
inhibitor was added.  On hospital day number 19, due to
labile blood pressures her pressors were restarted.  Her
rhythm seemed to fluctuate between normal sinus rhythm,
multi-focal atrial tachycardia and supraventricular
tachycardia, which was all managed conservatively.  She was
eventually placed on a low dose Metoprolol in attempts to
control her rhythm and her ACE inhibitor was discontinued.

She had a repeat echocardiogram performed on hospital day #34
which revealed continued ejection fraction of less than 25%.

She was also noted to have a seven-beat run of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia on hospital day #36, however, after
discussion with her guardian in regards to placing an AICD,
it was determined that the guardian did not want an AICD
placed and also suggested to discontinue the Telemetry which
would be of no use if she did go into a life threatening
rhythm.  Telemetry was discontinued.  The patient had no
further episodes of cardiovascular events that were noted and
her rhythm was no longer monitored.





This dictation will be continued at a later date as a
Discharge Summary Addendum.




                        DR.[**First Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) 734**] 12-944

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 5406**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2191-9-25**]  22:07
T:  [**2191-9-28**]  17:07
JOB#:  [**Job Number 26156**]
