Admission Date:  [**2126-8-19**]     Discharge Date:  [**2126-8-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2074-8-26**]     Sex:  M


IDENTIFICATION:  A 51-year-old male transferred from an
outside hospital with non-ST elevation myocardial
infarction admitted to Coronary Care Unit for stabilization
precatheterization.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 51-year-old
male with likely history of atrial fibrillation who had the
onset of [**7-23**] central chest pain with radiation to the left
shoulder on the night prior to admission.  It lasted several
minutes and resolved on its own.  The pain recurred in the
a.m. upon awakening.  This time the pain was associated with
nausea and profuse diaphoresis.  He presented to [**Hospital1 **]
His chest pain was refractory to aspirin, heparin, Lopressor,
and intravenous nitroglycerin; and for this reason was
admitted to the Coronary Care Unit.  By report, an
echocardiogram demonstrating severe septal hypokinesis.  He
was found to have elevated cardiac enzymes with a creatine
kinase of 247 and an CK/MB of 29.  Given continued pain, he
was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
further care.

On arrival to the Coronary Care Unit he was hemodynamically
stable, in atrial fibrillation.  He was chest pain free
saying his pain resolved at 9 p.m. that day.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   History of palpitations without prior
evaluation.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at home were none.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Nitroglycerin drip, heparin drip,
Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d., aspirin 81 mg p.o. times two,
Lipitor 20 mg p.o. times one, morphine sulfate 2 mg p.o.
times two, Pepcid 20 mg p.o. times one, and [**First Name5 (NamePattern1) 233**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1002**] 40 p.o.
times one.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Denies smoking.  Drinks rarely.  Married and
lives with wife and family in [**Name (NI) **].  Works in advertising.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Blood pressure 126/53,
heart rate 108, in atrial fibrillation, respiratory rate 19,
temperature was afebrile, oxygen saturation 95% on 3 liters
nasal cannula.  General appearance revealed alert and
oriented times three.  In no apparent distress, nontoxic.
HEENT revealed no jugular venous distention.  No bruits.
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular
was irregularly irregular, S1/S2.  No murmurs were audible.
Abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended, normal active
bowel sounds.  Extremities had no edema, 2+ distal pulses.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 16.3,
hematocrit 40, platelets 274.  PT 13, PTT 61, INR 1.1. Sodium
of 138, potassium 4.8, chloride 102, bicarbonate 21, BUN 24,
creatinine 1, glucose 146.  Calcium 8.8, phosphate 2.7,
magnesium 1.9.  Creatine kinase was 1100 at 11 p.m.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram revealed atrial
fibrillation at 110 beats per minute, normal axis and
intervals, Q wave in V2 with isolated 1-mm ST segment
elevation.  Otherwise, no acute ST changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  While the patient was in the Coronary Care
Unit overnight, the patient was chest pain free without
shortness of breath.  The patient reports sleeping well.  The
patient was stabilized overnight on aspirin, heparin drip,
nitroglycerin drip, Aggrastat drip, statin, and beta blocker.

However, the following morning's electrocardiogram had
revealed ST elevations in V2 like prior electrocardiogram but
now an ST elevations in V3.  The patient now had an ST
elevation myocardial infarction as opposed to initial a non
ST elevated myocardial infarction.  In addition, a
pericardial rub was now found on examination.  Pericarditis
in a focal area may explain the ST elevations in V2 and V3.
The plan was then changed to go to catheterization the next
available case.

Cardiac catheterization revealed 2-vessel disease in a left
dominant system with a normal left main, left anterior
descending artery total occlusion proximal which was then
stented, left circumflex of 30% to 40% distal occlusion,
right coronary artery small nondominant vessel total
occlusion in the middle segment, RA pressure of 13, PA
systolic pressure of 50, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure
of 31, cardiac output of 7.8, and moderate pulmonary
hypertension.  No left ventriculography was done in the
setting of myocardial infarction.

The patient's creatine kinase peaked at 2812 with a MB
of 192, and an index of 6.8, and troponin of greater than 50.
The patient was chest pain free and comfortable after cardiac
catheterization.  The patient was maintained on
anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation as well as for
presumed anterior wall abnormality and motion.

A transthoracic echocardiogram was done to evaluate ejection
fraction and wall motion since no left ventriculography was
done in the setting of an acute myocardial infarction.  The
transthoracic echocardiogram revealed a left ventricular
apical thrombus of about 2 cm to 3 cm in size, and an
ejection fraction of 25%.  There was severe regional left
ventricular systolic dysfunction, near akinesis of anterior
septum and anterior wall, mildly dyskinetic apex, distal
inferior wall was akinetic, hypokinetic left ventricular
segments and 1 to 2+ mitral regurgitation.

On [**2126-8-23**], the patient was medically stable for
discharge to home with followup the following Monday with
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1637**] for PT and INR check.  The patient
was discharged on his inpatient medications and Lovenox, and
Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d.

DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP:  The patient was to have cardiac
rehabilitation in four to six weeks.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Acute myocardial infarction.
2.  Status post stent in the left anterior descending artery.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Lipitor, aspirin, Plavix, Lovenox,
Lasix, captopril, Lopressor.



                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 1575**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 12203**], MD  [**MD Number(1) 12204**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1183**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2126-9-30**]  15:46
T:  [**2126-10-5**]  09:22
JOB#:  [**Job Number 45174**]
