Admission Date:  [**2192-11-3**]     Discharge Date:  [**2192-11-15**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77 year old man
with a history of diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease,
status post three vessel coronary artery bypass grafting and
status post mitral valve replacement, who presented to an
outside hospital with ventricular tachycardia, progressing to
a ventricular fibrillation arrest, with chronic
defibrillation times two.

The patient reports he was driving his car when he began to
note some lightheadedness.  He pulled over to the side of the
road and then lost consciousness.  Prior to this, he had no
symptoms of chest pain, shortness of breath, diaphoresis or
any other anginal equivalent at that time.  He was found a
short time later, he does not know how long.  Emergency
medical service was called and an electrocardiogram at that
time reportedly revealed supraventricular tachycardia at a
rate of 200 to 210, although no strips are available for
review.

The patient was given 6 mg of Adenosine en route to an
outside hospital, which had essentially no effect.  Upon
arrival to the outside hospital, he was found to be in a
tachycardia to approximately 200, of unknown etiology.  He
then rapidly progressed to monomorphic ventricular
tachycardia, became pulseless and cyanotic, for which he was
rapidly defibrillated at 200 joules, with an immediate
resumption of normal sinus rhythm.

The patient again went into ventricular tachycardia a short
time later, with degeneration into ventricular fibrillation
and was again defibrillated, this time with 300 joules, again
returning to normal sinus rhythm immediately.  At this time,
he was given a 100 mg Lidocaine bolus and a 2 mg/minute
continuous intravenous drip was started.

The patient remained in normal sinus rhythm after that and
was transferred to [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 3867**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] for
further management.  Of note, the patient denies ever having
had an anginal equivalent or chest pain in the past.  His
initial coronary artery disease was picked up on a routine
workup for another medical illness that he does not recall,
ultimately resulting in stress, cardiac catheterization and
then coronary artery bypass grafting.

Upon arrival to [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 3867**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **], the
patient was without complaint.  He had no chest pain or
shortness of breath.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease, status
post three vessel coronary artery bypass grafting in [**2183**];
also performed at the same time was a mitral valve repair
which failed; patient then had a mitral valve replacement
with a mechanical valve approximately in [**2184**].  2.  Abdominal
aortic aneurysm repair.  3.  Diabetes mellitus times ten
years, controlled with Glynase after diet management failed.
4.  Peptic ulcer disease.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Adalat 30 mg p.o.q.d., Lopressor
50 mg p.o.b.i.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o.q.d., Glynase 3 mg
p.o.q.d., Accupril 20 mg p.o.q.d., Lanoxin 0.125 mg
p.o.b.i.d. (patient verifies that his dosing is b.i.d.),
Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o.q.d., Prevacid 30 mg p.o.q.d., Zantac 150
mg p.o.q.d.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin (rash).

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient does not currently smoke, he
quit 20 years ago, and denies any alcohol intake.  He lives
with his wife in [**Name (NI) **].  He is a retired police
officer.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination on admission,
the patient had a blood pressure of 143/103, pulse 69 and
regular, respiratory rate 18 and oxygen saturation 98% in
room air.  General:  Well appearing, in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Anicteric sclerae,
oropharynx clear with moist mucous membranes.  Neck:  Jugular
venous pressure to 6 cm, estimated central venous pressure of
approximately 14.  Respiratory:  Lungs clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm,
mechanical S1, normal S2, soft crescendo-decrescendo systolic
murmur best heard at left sternal border, nonradiating.
Abdomen:  Old surgical scars, soft, benign.  Rectal:  Brown
guaiac negative stool.  Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing
or edema, 2+ pulses bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  Electrocardiogram on admission showed
normal sinus rhythm at 71 beats per minute, normal axis,
normal intervals, borderline first degree A-V block, partial
right bundle branch block, T wave inversions in II, III, V5
and V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiovascular:  Given the patient's
extensive history of coronary artery disease, it was
suspected that he had had a primary arrhythmic event and this
is what led to his monomorphic ventricular tachycardia and
his need for defibrillation.

The patient was continued on Lidocaine overnight, which was
stopped on hospital day number two, after he had been stable.
He was scheduled to go to the electrophysiology laboratory
for an electrophysiology study.  Cardiac enzymes were cycled
and revealed CKs of 187, 228 and 215 with MBs of 14, 18 and
16.

We believed that this was a troponin leak secondary to his
tachycardia and not a primary event.  However, given the
patient's extensive history, we could not rule out a primary
cardiac vent leading to the arrhythmia.  The plan was for the
patient to go to the cardiac catheterization laboratory and,
following his catheterization, go to the electrophysiology
laboratory for an electrophysiology study and, most likely,
an ICD placement.

On hospital day number two, however, the patient began to
develop increasing blood pressure to approximately 200
systolic.  He then developed rales bilaterally, approximately
one-half way up, and his oxygen requirement began to
increase.  It was believed that the patient had flashed into
pulmonary edema and he was diuresed with Lasix.

On hospital day number three, the patient's lungs were clear
and his oxygen requirement had returned to [**Location 213**], however,
the patient's BUN and creatinine had risen.  His creatinine
on hospital day two was in the mid-2s compared with 1.6 on
admission.  Because of this rise in creatinine, it was
believed it was not safe at the current time to send him to
the catheterization laboratory, so catheterization was
delayed.  The electrophysiology service offered, in light of
his delayed catheterization, to take the patient to the
electrophysiology for an electrophysiology study to see if he
had an ablatable focus.

On [**2192-11-7**], the patient was taken to the
electrophysiology laboratory.  A focus of atrial tachycardia
was found, which was ablated during the electrophysiology
study.  A plan was made for the patient to have a pacemaker
and ICD placement after his catheterization.

On the same day, an echocardiogram was performed which
revealed mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy, normal
left ventricular cavity size, severely depressed left
ventricular function with a left ventricular ejection
fraction of 25% to 30% and sever global left ventricular
hypokinesis.  The patient also showed a depressed right
ventricular function, moderate tricuspid regurgitation,
mitral valve prosthesis with normal function, no mitral
regurgitation.

The patient continued to be stable following his
electrophysiology study and was transferred to the floor
awaiting his catheterization.  Catheterization was performed
and revealed a 100% occluded right coronary artery, left
anterior descending artery and left circumflex.  The patient
also had three saphenous vein grafts.  The superior saphenous
vein graft to the obtuse marginal two was patent.  Saphenous
vein graft to the distal right coronary artery was patent but
the saphenous vein graft to the left anterior descending
artery was occluded proximally with a mid- left anterior
descending artery and distal graft filling via right-to-left
collaterals.  At the time, the decision was made to do no
intervention and that medical management only would be
preferred.

The patient was sent back to the floor and, the following
day, had an electrophysiology study in which an ICD 