Admission Date:  [**2117-11-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2117-11-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2040-8-9**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIAC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 76 year-old man
with known history of atrial fibrillation, congestive heart
failure and valvular disease.  He recently underwent cardiac
catheterization for shortness of breath and to evaluate his
known mitral regurgitation.  The cardiac catheterization
revealed two vessel coronary artery disease, severe mitral
regurgitation, mild systolic and diastolic ventricular
dysfunction and severe pulmonary hypertension.  Specifically
there was a 70% stenosis of the left circumflex, 30% stenosis
of the right coronary artery and 70% stenosis of the
posterior descending coronary artery .  The estimated
ejection fraction was 42%.  The patient presented to the
service for mitral valve repair after the planned procedure
was postponed approximately two weeks ago secondary to
cellulitis of the right calf, which was treated with
antibiotics for ten days prior to admission.  On the day of
admission the patient denied any chest pain.  He does
complain of mild exertional shortness of breath with
activities such as climbing stairs.  He denies any
claudication, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea,
lightheadedness.  He does have chronic lower extremity edema.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Atrial fibrillation.  2.
Congestive heart failure with ejection fraction of 42% by the
cardiac catheterization and more then 55% by surface
echocardiogram.  3.  Hypothyroid, which is a new diagnosis.
4.  Coronary artery disease.  5.  Hypercholesterolemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hernia repair.  2.  Detached
retina surgery on the right eye.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATION ON ADMISSION:  Coumadin originally on 2.5 mg
stopped ten days prior to admission.  Lasix 20 mg po b.i.d.,
Captopril 50 mg po t.i.d., Digoxin 0.125 mg po q day,
Unithyroid 50 micrograms po q day, Procardia 240 mg po q day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was alert and oriented and
in no acute distress.  Blood pressure 113/58.  Pulse 82.
Temperature 97.0.  General, in no acute distress.  HEENT
examination within normal limits.  Chest examination clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiac examination irregular
heart rate with 3 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur, which
radiates to the neck bilaterally.  Abdomen soft, nontender,
nondistended.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities warm and
well perfuse without any evidence of edema, however, there
are bilateral lower extremity venostasis changes.

LABORATORY STUDIES:  Hematocrit 31.9, PT 14.1, PTT 37.2, INR
1.4.  BUN 16, creatinine 0.9, glucose 168, potassium 4.0,
sodium 141.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Cardiac
Surgery Service for surgical intervention.  On [**2117-11-8**] the
patient underwent mitral valve repair with a 30 mm [**Doctor Last Name 405**]
ring, tricuspid valve anuloplasty, with 32 mm ring, coronary
artery bypass graft times two/ligation of the left atrial
appendage.  Please see the full operative note for details.
The procedure was without complications.  The patient was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit in stable condition.
The patient remained intubated.  He was making adequate
urine. His white blood cell count was noted to be 18 on
postoperative day one.  The chest x-ray was taken to confirm
the position of the pulmonary artery catheter as well as the
nasogastric tube.  The patient was maintained on aspirin.
Aggressive pulmonary toilet was initiated.  Chest tubes were
in place.  The patient's hematocrit remained stable.  His
white blood cell count was still elevated on postoperative
day two at 17.9.  Physical therapy was consulted who followed
the patient throughout the hospitalization.

Electrophysiology/Cardiology Service was consulted regarding
partial heart block.  The patient was consequently extubated
on postop day two.  He remained afebrile with stable blood
pressure and 98% on 4 liters nasal cannula.  The patient
continued to be in atrial fibrillation with occasional atrial
flutter.  He also had runs of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia, which was not new to him.  The patient was
transferred to the floor on postoperative day three.  He was
continued on Coumadin and intravenous heparin to achieve
adequate coagulation.  Electrophysiology Service was
following the patient regarding a possible placement of a
pacer device.  Echocardiogram was obtained on [**2117-11-15**], which
showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 50 to 55%.
Also some septal hypokinesis was noted, but no other wall
motion abnormalities.  The decision was made that given no
evidence of myocardial scar and no significant left
ventricular dysfunction (normal EF), the history of
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in isolation does not
confer high risk for sudden cardiac death.  Consequently the
electrophisilogy recommendation was not to place the device
at that time.

The patient continued to do well.  He was in atrial
fibrillation/flutter during his hospitalization.  He also had
runs of ventricular tachycardia that was nonsustained as
mentioned previously.  He was discharged to the
rehabilitation center on [**2117-11-17**].

On discharge the patient's INR was 1.9.  Consequently his
intravenous heparin was stopped and he was continued on po
Coumadin only.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  To rehabilitation center.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Coronary artery disease and mitral valve disease status
post coronary artery bypass graft times two and mitral valve
repair with a 30 mm [**Doctor Last Name 405**] ring.
2.  Congestive heart failure.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  History of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.
5.  Atrial fibrillation.
6.  Hypothyroid.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1.  Coumadin dose to be adjusted at
the rehabilitation center based on coagulation laboratories
obtained daily.  2.  Lasix 20 mg po b.i.d.  3.  Captopril 50
mg po t.i.d.  4.  Procardia XT 240 mg po q day.  5.  Digoxin
0.125 mg po q.d.  6.  Unithyroid 50 micrograms po q day.  7.
Colace 100 mg po b.i.d. prn constipation.  8.  Protonix 40 mg
po q day.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  1.  The patient is to follow up with
his surgeon Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] in approximately four weeks.  2.
The patient is to follow up with his cardiologist in
approximately three to four weeks.  3.  The patient is to
follow up with his primary care physician [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
in approximately one to two weeks.  4.  The patient is to
have coagulation laboratories drawn (PT, PTT, INR) daily
until a stable Coumadin regimen is obtained.  The
anticoagulation will be followed at the rehabilitation center
where the patient is being transferred and then by the
primary care physician.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1741**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2117-11-17**]  12:21
T:  [**2117-11-17**]  14:51
JOB#:  [**Job Number 10785**]
