Admission Date:  [**2161-6-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2161-7-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2141-4-30**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Trauma Surgery Service

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 20 year old lady who
was a passenger in a golf cart that overturned at a speed of
approximately 50 miles per hour.  She landed on her occiput
of her skull.  She was unresponsive to any stimuli at the
scene by Emergency Medical Services.  She was emergently
intubated at the scene due to [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 2611**] coma scale of 5.  She
was seen at an outside hospital and transported to [**Hospital6 1760**] on [**7-25**] via [**Location (un) **].
During her transport she had a saturation of 94% while being
intubated.  She also had a blood pressure of anywhere between
100 to 150/60 to 100.  She was tachycardiac from 130s to
160s.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for asthma.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Examination at the time of arrival via
[**Location (un) **] was temperature 35.6 per tympanic membrane, pulse
120, blood pressure 115/palpable.  She had saturation 100%,
intubated and sedated.  Her pupils were 3.5 cm to 3 cm
bilaterally.  She had a left occiput hematoma.  Her tympanic
membranes were clear with no otorrhea.  She had no visible
defect in the oral cavity.  Her cervical collar was in place.
Her breathsounds were equal bilaterally.  Her abdomen was
soft.  Pelvis was stable.  Her heart examination revealed
tachycardia, no murmurs.  Rectal tone was normal with heme
negative stool.  The lower extremities were without
deformities other than minimal abrasions.  She had palpable
dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her initial laboratory values was a white
count of 19.2 with a hematocrit of 39.3 and platelet count of
224.  PT was 14.3, PTT 26.6, INR 1.4, sodium 137, potassium
3.1, chloride 101, bicarbonate 21, BUN 9, creatinine .7.  Her
initial arterial blood gases upon presentation was pH of
7.38, pCO2 39, pO2 126, bicarbonate 24, base deficit of -1.
The patient had a head computerized tomography scan which
revealed fractures of the petrous bone and also revealed a
right and left occipital bone fractures, comminuted,
nondisplaced and also revealed a right forward right
interparenchymal hemorrhage.  Computerized tomography scan of
her chest revealed a pulmonary contusion on the right hand
side.  Computerized tomography scan of the abdomen was
negative for solid organ injury or free fluid.  The patient
then returned to the Emergency Department where Neurosurgery
placed a ventriculostomy tube via left lateral approach.  She
was then taken to angiogram for four vessel angiogram of the
carotids and vertebral arteries in the region of the carotid
syphon.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Neurosurgery was immediately consulted upon
the patient's arrival.  They came to the Emergency Department
and placed a ventriculostomy tube.  The patient was already
intubated.  She was stabilized in the Emergency Department
and was admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit.  She
was admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit with the
ventriculostomy draining cerebrospinal fluid.  She was also
given Mannitol to lower her intracranial pressure and was
placed in a mild hyperventilation to lower her pCO2 and hence
decrease her intracranial pressure.  She was also placed on
Phenytoin for seizure prophylaxis per neurosurgical request.
On day #2 in the Intensive Care Unit the patient was started
on tube feeds.  She initially did not tolerate tube feeds
with high residuals and due to her potential for aspiration
risk was subsequently started on total parenteral nutrition.
Cardiology was consulted secondary to the patient's
persistent tachycardia and she had an echocardiogram which
showed a decreased left ventricular ejection fraction.  She
also had a low pulmonary capillary wedge via Swan-Ganz
catheter.  Cardiology believed that she was not in
cardiogenic shock secondary to these values and the
tachycardia was secondary to an intracranial process.  The
patient remained intubated and sedated with intense
monitoring for the next four days.  Trail extubation was
attempted on [**2161-6-28**].  The patient failed trial
extubation secondary to copious secretions and was
reintubated.  She again had a trial extubation on [**2161-7-1**], again failed the extubation an was reintubated.  She
was also treated for a pseudomonas anergasia pneumonia with
Ceftaz for a duration of seven days.  The pneumonia resolved
secondary to antibiotic administration.  Otorhinolaryngology
consult was obtained for the patient's apparent hoarseness of
voice, most likely due to being intubated and extubated times
three.  Otorhinolaryngology evaluated the patient and scoped
her.  It revealed some fibrinous granulation tissue at the
cords with no frank cord paralysis.  She did have some
pharyngeal edema.  The patient several follow up computerized
tomography scans for her interparenchymal hematoma and
subarachnoid hemorrhage.  The second computerized tomography
scan showed an interval change of a worsening subarachnoid
hemorrhage and intraparenchymal bleed.  Neurosurgery and the
Surgery Intensive Care Unit team were contact[**Name (NI) **].  The
patient's intracranial pressure was rising, she was given
Mannitol and the ventriculostomy drain was left in place to
drain cerebrospinal fluid to lower the intracranial pressure.
The patient was extubated again on [**2161-7-6**] and has
remained extubated since.  She has been tolerating tube feeds
without difficulty and has reached goal.  The patient's
Intensive Care Unit pneumonia has resolved with antibiotic
therapy.  She was transferred to the floor on [**2161-7-7**].
On the floor the patient has remained stable without major
difficulties.  She has remained relatively tachycardiac with
the heartrate controlled via intravenous Lopressor.  A
subsequent cardiology consult revealed that the tachycardia
was most likely due to sinus tachycardia and recommended
increasing a Lopressor dose as well as starting an Ace
inhibitor to prevent possible remottling secondary to the
cardiac contusion sustained in the initial golf cart
accident.

The patient's mental status and neurological status have been
improving since initial hospitalization.  She is now
following simple commands, opening eyes and tracking.  She
has been tolerating her tube feeds and has had increased
interaction with the staff more recently.  On [**2161-7-11**],
it was noted that the patient had an increasing white blood
cell count.  A urinalysis was sent.  A chest x-ray was
obtained which revealed no parapneumonic or pneumonic
process.  An lumbar puncture was attempted, however, was
unsuccessful.  The patient had remained afebrile.  A follow
up white blood cell count will be obtained today with
differential.  The patient is currently on no antibiotics and
has been afebrile with improving mental status.

The patient's further hospital course, if necessary, will be
dictated if the patient is not discharged tomorrow.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Closed head injury with a right interparenchymal
hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage as well as right
temporal bone fracture and multiple occipital bone fractures.
2.  Pulmonary contusion.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  The patient is to be discharged to
acute neurological rehabilitation facility of her parents'
choice on Monday.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Metoprolol 50 mg p.o. via Dobbhoff feeding tube b.i.d.
2.  Roxicet elixir 5 to 10 mg via nasogastric tube
3.  Prevacid 30 mg p.o. nasogastric q. day
4.  Heparin 5000 units subcutaneously
5.  Dulcolax 10 mg per rectum prn
6.  Lacrilube ointment

FOLLOW UP:  The patient is to be discharge to acute
neurological rehabilitation.  She is to follow up with
Neurosurgery in one to two weeks.  She is also to follow up
with the Trauma Surgery Clinic when able to secondary to her
acute rehabilitation.  She is to have outpatient follow up
with Cardiology if the tachycardia remains persistent.



                            [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.

Dictated B