Admission Date:  [**2168-1-22**]     Discharge Date:  [**2168-1-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2127-3-4**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Urology

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Left renal mass.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient is a well-developed and
well-nourished male in no apparent distress.  HEENT:  Mucous
membranes are moist.  No oral ulcers, no evidence of scleral
icterus and no cervical lymphadenopathy.  Cranial nerves II
through XII are intact.  Chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally with mild decreased breath sounds in the left
lower base.  Cardiac:  Regular, rate, and rhythm, no murmurs.
Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended with oblique
incision in the left upper aspect of the abdomen with staples
intact.  No evidence of cellulitis noted.  No purulence
noted.  Extremities:  No evidence of rash.  No edema noted.

PERTINENT LABORATORIES:  On [**2168-1-28**]:  Hematocrit
34.4, PT 31.9, PTT 51.5, and INR of 3.2.  This is after the
Heparin has been discontinued and the Lovenox therapy was
initiated.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  Mr. [**Known firstname **] [**Known lastname **] is a
29-year-old male with past medical history remarkable for
multiple Crohn's bowel resection, who underwent an
uncomplicated left radical nephrectomy.  Patient's
postoperative course was complicated by a sudden desaturation
on postoperative day #1 to 70% on room air with cognatant
tachycardia.  Although workup with VQ scan revealed low
probability for a pulmonary embolus, due to the high clinical
suspicions, CT angiogram was performed which revealed a
pulmonary embolus localized in the left upper lobe pulmonary
artery and right lower lobe branch of basilar segments.  No
electrocardiogram change was noted during this period.

The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit, where
Heparin therapy was initiated and targeted for a PT of 60-70.
During this time, a baseline check of coagulation showed an
INR of 1.9 rising to 3.2 thereafter.  Hematology/Oncology
consult was obtained which directed the source of elevated
INR to the probable vitamin K deficiency secondary to Crohn's
as well as Heparin infarct.

Decision was made after extensive discussion with
Hematology/Oncology and Pulmonary Service, to initiate
Lovenox therapy, and give a trial of vitamin K.  Throughout
this course, the patient's hematocrit was stable, and the
patient's bowel function returned with corresponding
advancement of diet.  Decision was made to discharge the
patient to home with VNA service to ensure compliance with
Lovenox regimen.  Because biopsy results indicated renal cell
carcinoma, the patient was referred to Biologics Oncology
service for followup for both anticoagulation as well as
Oncology issues.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Status post left radical nephrectomy.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. SubQ Lovenox 80 mg [**Hospital1 **].
2. Dilaudid 3 mg po q2-4h prn pain.

FOLLOW-UP PLANS:  The patient was instructed to call the
office of Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 986**] for a follow-up appointment.  The
patient was also instructed to contact the Biologics Oncology
Service for a follow-up appointment regarding the results of
the nephrectomy as well as the anticoagulation issues.




                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 38941**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 95396**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2168-1-29**]  10:37
T:  [**2168-2-1**]  11:41
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
