Admission Date:  [**2169-12-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2169-12-22**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 55 year old
male with a history of coronary artery disease with a
myocardial infarction at age 20, also history of diabetes
mellitus, and cerebrovascular accident, who was transferred
emergently to [**Hospital1 69**]
catheterization laboratory from outside hospital.  The
patient was diaphoretic the p.m. of admission, reportedly
took his medicines and went to bed.  He was then found
unresponsive in bed by his family and EMS was called.  He had
a prolonged code in the field by EMS and was given initially
2 mg of Atropine and 6 mg of Epinephrine and was transferred
to the outside hospital Emergency Department.  At the outside
hospital Emergency Department, he was found to be in
ventricular fibrillation and given Epinephrine and followed
by defibrillation times three, followed by Lidocaine and
followed by one more defibrillation attempt, which resulted
in sinus tachycardia with a rate of 140 and systolic blood
pressure of 110/50, and fingerstick of 36.  He then became
hypotensive at 53/35 and developed PEA and was given
Epinephrine times two.  He was then started on Levophed and
Dopamine and transferred to [**Hospital1 188**].

At the time of transfer, cardiac catheterization revealed
ulceration of the left main artery along with a stump
occlusion of the left anterior descending and diagonal
arteries.  A DS stent was placed in the left main and a
Hepacoat stent was placed in the diagonal.  The left anterior
descending was noted to be totally occluded and could not be
crossed.  He was then transferred to the CCU in critical
condition on multiple pressors, not responsive, with dilated
pupils.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  As noted above, the patient was transferred
to the CCU in critical condition on multiple pressors
including Levophed and Dopamine.  He was unresponsive with
noted dilated pupils.  Neurology was consulted and
recommended apnea test, which was done and, subsequently the
day after admission, the patient was declared clinically
brain dead.  There was much difficulty in maintaining his
blood pressure.  On [**2169-12-22**], discussion was held with his
family concerning the severe nature of his condition.  It was
decided to withdraw care and he was pronounced dead at 11:05
p.m. on [**2169-12-22**].  The family was present.  Autopsy was and organ
donation were declined.




                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 610**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3812**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 14268**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2170-3-31**]  16:41
T:  [**2170-4-1**]  08:27
JOB#:  [**Job Number 52374**]











