Admission Date:  [**2162-1-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2162-2-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2103-7-7**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58-year-old
female with a past medical history significant for
insulin-dependent diabetes, hypertension,
hypertriglyceridemia likely causing chronic pancreatitis, and
peripheral vascular disease who was transferred from a
outside hospital with an inferolateral ST-elevation
myocardial infarction.

The patient had no known prior coronary artery disease.  She
had a recent vascular surgery in [**2161-11-2**] for a left
femoral to posterior tibialis bypass.  Prior to that surgery,
the patient had a preoperative stress test done with a
Persantine MIBI and noted to have borderline
electrocardiogram changes with no perfusion defects with a
calculated ejection fraction of 62%.  The patient had
recovery of 0.5 mm to [**Street Address(2) 100598**] depressions
during that stress test.

On the morning prior to admission, the patient developed
substernal chest pain which the patient describes as her
first episode ever of chest pain that radiated to her back
and her left arm.  She denied any associated symptoms related
to that.

She called Emergency Medical Service and was sent to an
outside hospital.  Her electrocardiogram there showed
inferior and lateral ST elevations with creatine kinases in
the 400s, positive MB, and positive MB index with a troponin
I of 15.5.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for emergent catheterization.  On cardiac
catheterization, the patient was noted to have 3-vessel
disease including a 30% left main, 90% left anterior
descending artery, 100% left circumflex, 50% right coronary
artery, and occluded posterior descending artery and was
treated with angioplasty.  The patient's posterior descending
was treated with percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty and noted to have normal flow with
moderate-to-severe dissection requiring prolonged inflation.
No stent was placed during the procedure, and the patient was
sent to the Coronary Care Unit with an intra-aortic balloon
pump with a plan for Cardiac Surgery to do a coronary artery
bypass graft procedure in the next 48 to 72 hours.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (The patient's past medical history is
as described in addition to)
 1.  Anemia of uncertain etiology.
 2.  Insulin-dependent diabetes.
 3.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post left femoral to
posterior tibialis bypass.
 4.  Chronic pancreatitis.
 5.  No known coronary artery disease.
 6.  Peripheral neuropathy.
 7.  Hypothyroidism.
 8.  History of deep venous thrombosis.
 9.  History of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
to a left thigh wound in [**2161-12-3**].
10.  She is status post cholecystectomy.
11.  Status post thyroidectomy.
12.  She has had right shoulder surgery for a vascular and
infected necrosis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Lopressor 25 three times per day.
2.  Zestril 40 once per day.
3.  Synthroid 75 mcg once per day.
4.  Pepcid 20 twice per day.
5.  Lantus 60 at hour of sleep.
6.  Humalog sliding-scale.
7.  Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 once per day.

Apparently the patient was suppose to be on Tricor, but was
not taking that medication.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  The patient was transferred on a
nitroglycerin drip, heparin drip, given 25 mg of Demerol, 5
mg of intravenous Lopressor times three, Phenergan,
Integrilin, and Plavix 300 times one.

ALLERGIES:  The patient's allergies include PERCOCET,
question to MORPHINE, question of HEPARIN (per patient), and
BACTRIM.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a single female.  Denies any current
alcohol abuse.  Denies any other drug use.  She quit smoking
30 years ago.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Her mother had a myocardial infarction at
the age of 26.  Her maternal grandmother had a fatal
myocardial infarction at uncertain age.  The patient's
religion is Jehovah Witness and refused blood products.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  She was febrile at
102.4, her blood pressure was 140/90, her heart rate was 100,
her respiratory rate was 20, and she was 219 pounds.  In
general, she was in no apparent distress.  Awake, alert, and
oriented.  Her pupils were equal, round, and reactive to
light.  Her extraocular muscles were intact.  Moist mucous
membranes.  Her neck had no evident jugular venous
distention.  No thyromegaly.  Her chest was clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Heart examination revealed she had
a [**1-8**] holosystolic murmur at the apex.  Otherwise, slightly
tachycardic.  No rubs or gallops appreciated.  Her abdomen
was soft, nontender, and nondistended with positive bowel
sounds.  Extremity examination revealed she had no lower
extremity edema.  She had nonpalpable distal pulses in her
lower extremities, but dopplerable distal pulses.  On
neurologic examination, she had 2+ deep tendon reflexes
throughout and 5/5 strength throughout.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Her creatine
phosphokinase on admission was 486, with a MB fraction of 30,
and MB index of 6.2.  Her second set showed a creatine
phosphokinase of 646, with a MB fraction of 42, and a MB
index of 6.5.  Her troponin I showed an initial value of 15.5
at the outside hospital to 13.8.  Her Chemistry-7 showed a
sodium of 136, potassium was 3.9, chloride was 102,
bicarbonate was 26, blood urea nitrogen was 29, creatinine
was 1.2, and blood glucose was 230.  Complete blood count
showed a white blood cell count of 11.4, hematocrit was 27.3,
and platelets were 222.  INR was 1.1.  Calcium was 8.7,
magnesium was 1.7, and phosphate was 3.7.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Her electrocardiogram from the
outside hospital noted 3-mm ST elevations inferiorly and ST
elevations of 1 mm to 2 mm in V2 through V6.  Status post
catheterization, the patient still had inferior ST elevations
of 2 mm to 3 mm and 2-mm to 3-mm ST elevations in V4 through
V5.

An echocardiogram on [**2161-11-4**] showed an ejection
fraction of greater than 65%, left atrium was mildly dilated,
trivial mitral regurgitation, trivial pericardial effusion,
and normal left ventricular wall motion.

On cardiac catheterization, as described above, status post
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of her
posterior descending artery with normal flow with dissection
with inflation.  Her hemodynamics showed a right atrial
pressure with a mean of 9, right ventricular of 40 systolic
and 10 diastolic, with a PA mean pressure of 33, pulmonary
capillary wedge pressure of 18, and a cardiac index of 2.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  Ischemia:  For
cardiovascular ischemia, the patient had noted 3-vessel
disease likely related to her longstanding insulin-dependent
diabetes, and a coronary artery bypass graft was recommended
given her persistent electrocardiogram changes and 3-vessel
disease as well as her diabetes.

The patient was maximally treated with medication including
Lopressor which was titrated for a goal heart rate of 60.  In
addition, she was placed on a statin as well as aspirin and
ACE inhibitor.

The plan was for the patient to go to cardiothoracic surgery
for a coronary artery bypass graft.  Cardiothoracic Surgery
evaluated the patient and recommended the patient have a
hematocrit of 45 prior to getting the coronary artery bypass
graft procedure given her high risk for blood loss during
this procedure.  Given the patient's religious beliefs of
Jehovah Witness, she refused any blood products.  The
coronary artery bypass graft surgery was postponed due to
that reason.

The patient's iron studies were checked, and she was noted to
be profoundly iron deficient with a mixed picture of iron
deficiency and chronic disease.  She was given one dose of
intravenous iron and started on Epogen to help increase her
hematocrit to a goal preoperative level of 40 to 45.  The
patient was not put on Plavix secondary to the thought that
she was likely going to coronary artery bypass graft in the
near future.  In addition, the data suggests that it is more
efficacious for patients with stent procedures to be placed
on Plavix, and this patient did not have a stent procedure,
she only had angiopla