Admission Date:  [**2177-7-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2177-8-1**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 80 year old woman
with a past medical history remarkable for lumpectomy in
[**2176-7-16**] showing infiltrating ductal cancer who now
presents with acute onset of shortness of breath.  The
patient was in her usual state of health until about one week
ago when she noted some shortness of breath.  At the time she
attributed it to extreme heat.  The shortness of breath
improved spontaneously by the next day and no action was
taken by the patient.  Then approximately four days later the
patient noted acute onset of dyspnea again, she rated it
[**9-24**].  It was not accompanied by chest pain, palpitations,
headaches, dizziness, light-headedness, nausea, vomiting or
diaphoresis.  She took some Theraflu overnight with no
relief.  When the shortness of breath persisted she presented
to the Emergency Room on [**7-28**].  The patient denies any
recent fractures, falls, broken bones or periods of
stasis/non-ambulation periods.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Osteoporosis, arthritis, left breast
mass status post lumpectomy in [**2176-5-16**], 0 of 8 nodes
positive status post radiation therapy.  Of note, the patient
had a negative mammogram in [**2177-5-16**].

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS:  None.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco or alcohol.  The patient lives
with husband of 51 years.  Daughter in [**Name2 (NI) 622**].

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant only for asthma, no family
history of cancers.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Admission physical examination, vital
signs; temperature not taken, heart rate 116, blood pressure
152/110, heart rate 28, O2 sats 88% on room air.  General
appearance, the patient is pleasant, in moderate respiratory
distress yet comfortable, with marked kyphosis.  HEENT;
anicteric sclera, pupils equal and reactive to light,
extraocular movements intact, mucous membranes moist, no oral
lesions.  Neck is supple with positive jugular venous
distention, no lymphadenopathy.  Lungs are clear to
auscultation bilaterally, no wheezes or rhonchi.  Breasts; no
breast masses, discharge or retractions.  No axillary,
supraclavicular lymphadenopathy.  Heart; mildly tachycardia,
S1, S2, no S3, no RV lift, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.
Abdomen; soft, nontender, nondistended, normoactive bowel
sounds.  Rectal; guaiac negative, no masses.  Extremities; no
erythema, no tenderness, trace edema, symmetric bilaterally.

ADMISSION LABS:  White count 8.9, hemoglobin 12.9, hematocrit
38, platelets 230, C. diff of 87.6, polys 8.9 lymphs and 2.5
monos.  Sodium 142, potassium 3.8, chloride 103, bicarbonate
24, BUN 17, creatinine 0.9, blood glucose 142, CK 184, CK MB
11, MB index 6, troponin 7.6.  Electrocardiogram showing ST
changes and T-wave inversion and anterior leads V1 through
V4.  Chest x-ray revealed nonspecific prominence of right
pulmonary artery.

Chest CT with contrast done in Emergency Department showed
intraluminal thrombus in both the right and left main
pulmonary arteries, right greater than left.  On the right
filling defect extends into the superior lobe trunk, middle
lobe artery and lower lobe trunk.  Intraluminal thrombus on
the left is most prominent in the upper lobe branches as well
as preservation of lower lobe.  There is a 5 mm nodule
opacity in the right upper lobe posteriorly.  No area of
consolidation was identified other than small low attenuation
lesion in the liver.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit on a heparin drip for massive bilateral
pulmonary emboli.  She remained hemodynamically stable
throughout her entire admission.  Discussion regarding
thrombolysis occurred in the Emergency Department, after a
negative head CT, as the patient with evident of right heart
strain per electrocardiogram and massive pulmonary emboli as
per CT angiogram.  The patient did not desire thrombolysis at
that time due to risks and the fact that her husband was not
there.  As she was hemodynamically stable, it was felt that
this was appropriate and she would be started on a heparin
drip and transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
monitoring.  The patient remained hemodynamically stable
throughout her time in the Medical Intensive Care Unit and
was transferred to the medical floor the next day, [**2177-7-29**].

1.  Cardiovascular.  The patient's blood pressure was mildly
elevated to 160's at admission and Lopressor 25 mg p.o.
b.i.d. was started for management of hypertension.  The
patient's systolic blood pressure decreased to 130's to 140's
on Lopressor.  She had been placed on a small dose of an Ace
inhibitor in the Medical Intensive Care Unit, however, this
was discontinued.  The patient had persistent T-wave
inversions in V1 through V3 on her electrocardiogram.  An
echocardiogram was performed which showed moderately dilated
right ventricle with depressed systolic function, left
ejection fraction greater than 55%, 1+ tricuspid
regurgitation, 1+ aortic regurgitation and a PA pressure of
approximately 36 mmHg.  The patient remained hemodynamically
stable during her entire course of admission.  Although she
had a positive troponin of 7.6 she ruled out per CKMB's and
CK index.  It was felt that the elevated troponin was due to
right heart strain, which continues per electrocardiogram at
this time.  The patient has never had chest pain during this
admission.

2.  Pulmonary.  The patient with bilateral pulmonary emboli
of unclear etiology.  Her oxygen saturations remained
excellent throughout hospitalization and were 97% on room air
at discharge.  The patient was comfortable with no shortness
of breath.  No evidence of pneumonia or pulmonary infarction
found per chest x-ray and clinical examination.

3.  Kidneys.  The patient with good urine output and
creatinine of 0.8.

4.  Infectious Disease.  White count 6.8 at discharge with no
left shift, no bands, patient afebrile without evidence of
infection.

5.  GI.  The patient taking decreased p.o. due to decreased
appetite, however, no nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.

6.  Heme/Onc.  Source of patient's hypercoagulability
unknown.  However, likely etiology is occult malignancy as
the patient with history of breast cancer in [**2176-5-16**].
However, negative mammogram in [**2177-5-16**] does not fit with
this picture.  Of note, a small nodule was appreciated in her
right upper lobe per CT angio in the Emergency Department.
This likely deserves further work-up and evaluation on an
outpatient basis.  Decision to pursue malignancy work-up as
an outpatient as the patient does not need inpatient
treatment at this time and aggressiveness of work-up should
be discussed between patient and her primary care physician,
[**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name (STitle) 3510**].  Various serologic studies were performed with a
normal protein CSF.  Of note, her thrombin was remarkable at
150, which is the highest range of this test.
Anticoagulation was begun and continued at time of discharge.
The patient is stable on a heparin drip at 900 units/hr and a
PTT of 97.1.  The patient was started on hospital day two on
Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d.  This has been increased to 7.5 mg
p.o. q.d. and at time of discharge the patient's INR was 2.0
with a PT of 17.5.  The patient to continue anticoagulation
with heparin and Coumadin with an overlap of around 3 days
and a goal INR of 2.5 to 3.5.  This is to be done at an acute
rehabilitation facility where a daily PTT and INR can be
monitored and adjusted accordingly.

7.  Endocrine.  There are no endocrine issues at this time.
Serum glucose is stable at 96.

8.  Neurology.  The patient in no pain, alert and oriented
times two without focal neurological defects.

9.  Prophylaxis.  The patient started on Ranitidine 75 mg
p.o. b.i.d. for GI prophylaxis.

10.  Fluids/electrolyte/nutrition.  Chem-7 within normal
limits.  The patient received only intravenous fluids with
heparin.

11.  Disposition.  The patient evaluated by Physical Therapy
and felt to need a rehabilitation setting for conditioning
and safe ambulation.  The patient with arthritis, especially
in hips and ankles which makes t