Admission Date:  [**2139-11-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2139-12-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2087-10-4**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Location (un) **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypotension.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 52-year-old
male with a past medical history significant for type 2
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and tobacco use who
presented to the Emergency Department with a 7-day history of
worsening dyspnea on exertion, a cough productive of yellow
sputum, fevers, chills, as well as left-sided pleuritic chest
pain.

The patient had presented to his primary care physician with
similar symptoms in [**Month (only) **] and [**2139-9-18**] and was
treated with a course of azithromycin for presumed
bronchitis; reportedly without symptomatic improvement.

The patient denied recent travel, sick contacts, headaches,
abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, as well as
urinary symptoms.

Of note, the patient had recently changed primary care
physicians and had been informed that his diabetes was well
controlled.  Based on this conversation, the patient assumed
his diabetic medication was unnecessary and discontinued the
medication approximately six week prior to admission.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was found with a
temperature of 102.2, heart rate was 137, blood pressure was
123/64, and oxygen saturation was 96% on room air, and
respiratory rate was 28.  The patient was noted to using
accessory muscles with coarse breath sounds throughout.

The initial chest x-ray was without evidence of infiltrate;
however, a computed tomography angiogram was obtained given
the patient's complaint of primary care physician and
evidence of sinus tachycardia.  The computed tomography
angiogram demonstrated a left lingular infiltrate, and the
patient was started on levofloxacin and nebulizer treatments.

Shortly thereafter, the patient became progressively
hypertensive with systolic blood pressures in the 80s with
worsening shortness of breath.  The patient was electively
intubated for hypercarbic respiratory failure with an
arterial blood gas of 7.22/50/407 on assist-control, tidal
volume of 700, respiratory rate of 12, and FIO2 of 100%.

While in the Emergency Department, the patient received a
total of 8 liters of normal saline without significant blood
pressure response, and the patient was subsequently started
on blood pressure support.

The patient's initial laboratories were notable for a white
blood cell count of 18.8 (with 12% bands), a blood glucose of
412, with trace ketonuria, and an anion gap of 13.  The
patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
further monitoring and evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
2.  Hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. (discontinued by the patient
six weeks prior to admission).

ALLERGIES:

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is an emigrant from [**Country 3587**]
in [**2117**].  The patient lives with his wife and daughter.  [**Name (NI) **]
works in a candy factory.  The patient reports a one pack per
day tobacco history of 18 years (currently using) with social
alcohol.  No intravenous drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed temperature was 101.2, blood pressure
was 102/68, pulse was 128, respiratory rate was 24, oxygen
saturation was 96% on 2 liters nasal cannula.  In general,
the patient was found awake and alert.  Spoke in full
sentences with frequent coughing.  In mild distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed
normocephalic and atraumatic.  Pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  Arcus senilis
bilaterally.  Extraocular movements were intact bilaterally.
Mucous membranes were dry.  The oropharynx was erythematous
with no exudate.  The neck was supple.  No lymphadenopathy or
jugular venous distention noted.  Cardiovascular examination
revealed a regular rate and rhythm with no extra heart sounds
appreciated.  Pulmonary examination revealed diffusely
scattered wheezes and rhonchi anteriorly and posteriorly.
Abdominal examination revealed soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  Normal active bowel sounds.  No masses were
appreciated.  Extremity examination revealed no clubbing,
cyanosis, or edema.  Warm and well perfused.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
and studies on admission revealed complete blood count with a
white blood cell count of 18.8, hematocrit was 43.6, and
platelets were 195.  White blood cell differential revealed
75% neutrophils, 12% bands, 4% lymphocytes, and 2% monocytes.
Chemistry-7 revealed sodium was 132, potassium was 4,
chloride was 95, bicarbonate was 23, blood urea nitrogen was
19, creatinine was 0.9, and blood glucose was 412, with an
anion gap of 14.  Urinalysis was notable for greater than
1000 glucose, greater than 80 ketones, with 0 white blood
cells and 0 red blood cells.  Microbiologic studies notable
during this admission included a sputum culture from [**2139-11-27**] with moderate streptococcal pneumococci.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Radiologic studies of note included a
chest computed tomography on admission which was notable for
left lingular infiltrate with no evidence for pleural
effusion of pericardial effusion, and no evidence
intraluminal filling defects to suggest pulmonary embolus.

A repeat chest computed tomography on hospital day six (on
[**2139-12-2**]) demonstrated ground-glass opacification and
consolidation in the lung apices with additional patchy areas
of opacification in the periphery of the right middle lobe
and lingua.  Small right and moderate left pleural effusions,
and several small pathologic mediastinal lymph nodes.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient was initially
treated with levofloxacin, ceftriaxone, and vancomycin a
multilobar pneumonia with a septic physiology.

The vancomycin was discontinued after one day, and following
the results of a sputum culture from admission with evidence
of moderate pneumococci, the Levaquin was discontinued after
completion of five days.  The patient was continued on
ceftriaxone for the duration of the hospitalization.

For the first eight days of the hospitalization, the patient
demonstrated a persistently elevated white blood cell count
with bandemia (maximum white blood cell count was 16.6 with
26% bands) and persistent fever (ranging from 100 to 103).
All blood cultures were without growth including multiple
catheter tip cultures.

The persistent fever was concerning for a line infection, and
vancomycin was restarted on [**12-3**].  Clostridium
difficile colitis (given several days of diarrhea) as well as
empyema (given small bilateral pleural effusions) were also
of concern.  However, the patient defervesced without the
addition of new therapy.  Clostridium difficile toxin results
were negative, and after imaging, the effusions were too
small to tap.

2.  PULMONARY SYSTEM:  The patient was intubated for
multilobar pneumococcal pneumonia secondary to hypercarbic
respiratory failure.  The patient required frequent
suctioning for copious secretions as well as frequent
albuterol nebulizer treatments for bronchospasms.

As the patient was being weaned from sedation and
ventilation, the patient self-extubated on [**12-1**].  The
patient maintained adequate oxygenation and ventilation for
the remainder of the hospitalization.

Serial chest x-rays demonstrated improving multilobar
pneumonia with development of very small bilateral pleural
effusions.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  The patient initially required
blood pressure support for hypotension in the setting of
sepsis.  After hospital day one, the patient continued off of
blood pressure support with systolic blood pressures ranging
from 130 to 160.

3.  ENDOCRINE SYSTEM:  The patient has a known diagnosis of
type 2 diabetes mellitus and presented with hyperglycemia and
mild diabetic ketoacidosis.  The patient required an insulin
drip while in the Medical Intensive Care Unit for poorly
controll