Admission Date:  [**2183-6-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2183-7-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2112-1-2**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Trauma Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72-year-old
gentleman who was at the [**University/College **] Club when he fell over the
railing of a stairway with approximately a 20-foot fall.  He
apparently landed on his head and had documented loss of
consciousness and was found confused with significant blood
loss on the back of his head.  Initially, the patient was not
moving his bilateral lower extremities but was eventually
noted to have movement in his lower extremities in the
Emergency Department.  The patient remained hemodynamically
stable upon transport.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   Alcohol and cardiomyopathy.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Unknown.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications upon admission were
unknown.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is visiting from [**State 4565**] and
has a longstanding alcohol abuse history.  The patient had
been drinking and was intoxicated on the evening of his fall.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Heart rate of 94,
blood pressure of 113/62, respiratory rate of 24, saturations
of 95% on a breather.  In general, a confused male in no
acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat revealed
blood coming from his ear and occipital laceration.  Pupils
were 3 mm bilaterally and reactive.  Cervical collar was in
place.  Chest with symmetrical lung expansion.  No
deformities or crepitus.  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Heart had a regular rate and rhythm.  The abdomen was soft,
nontender, and nondistended.  Pelvis was stable and
nontender.  Back revealed crepitus over his upper back.
Rectal revealed guaiac-positive stool.  Normal rectal tone.
Extremities revealed a left forearm laceration, but moved all
extremities to pain stimuli.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Initial
laboratories revealed a hematocrit of 41.3.  PTT of 29.2, INR
of 1.4.  Blood urea nitrogen of 15 and creatinine of 1.1.
Alcohol level of 237.  Creatine kinase was 1205, MB of 15.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Initial chest x-ray showed no
pneumothorax, no widened mediastinum.  Pelvis showed possible
bilateral superior and inferior pubic rami fractures.

CT of head showed a subarachnoid bleed with basilar skull
fracture.

A CT of the chest showed a fracture of multiple thoracic
vertebrae, hemothorax on the right.

CT of the abdomen showed no intra-abdominal injury.  A liver
mass; possible tumor or contusion.  CT of the abdomen also
revealed L3 lumbar body compression fracture, bilateral pubic
rami fractures, bilateral two sacral fracture.

IMPRESSION:  A 72-year-old male, status post approximately
12-foot to 20-foot fall with subarachnoid hemorrhage, basilar
skull fracture, multiple thoracic and lumbar spine fractures,
bilateral pubic rami fractures, and altered mental status.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In summary, the patient had a very
prolonged and complicated hospital course.

The patient was intubated for altered mental status and to
facilitate obtaining the studies.  The patient became
hemodynamically unstable while in the Emergency Department
and was transferred initially to the Surgical Intensive Care
Unit where he had a Swan-Ganz catheter placed to optimize
fluid management.

The patient was found to have a very poor ejection fraction
and required fluid and pressors to maintain his blood
pressure.  It was unclear what his baseline cardiac status
was; however, per his cardiologist in [**State 4565**], he had a
very poor ejection fraction of approximately 20%, and his
baseline blood pressure was approximately 100 to 110
systolic.  The patient was not felt to be hemodynamically
unstable due to blood loss, but a chest tube was placed in
his right chest to relieve the hemothorax, but there was not
noted to be excessive blood loss in his right chest tube.
His hematocrit remained stable.

1.  NEUROLOGY:  The patient was found to have a subarachnoid
hemorrhage.  In addition, a Neurosurgery consultation was
obtained which noted bilateral frontal contusions, a right
subdural hematoma, and had a ventriculostomy shunt placed.
He remained unresponsive for the initial part of his hospital
course and was not moving his extremities except his left
upper extremity to deep painful stimuli.

The patient began growing rare enterococcus out of his
cerebrospinal fluid and was treated with a course of
antibiotics for this.  The patient remained off station and
eventually slowly began improving his mental status.
Approximately three weeks into his course, he began to become
more an more responsive.  A repeat CAT scan of his head
showed mild improvement in his injuries with no worsening.

Eventually, the patient returned to being fully responsive,
appropriate, answering questions, and following full
commands.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient was noted to have an initial
episode of hypotension and was managed with a Swan-Ganz
catheter, intravenous fluids, and pressors.

His echocardiogram showed global hypokinesis with an ejection
fraction of just less than 20%, and he was eventually weaned
off of his pressors.  He was not felt to have any ongoing
blood loss as the cause of his hemodynamics.  It was felt
that the stress of the trauma combined with his poor cardiac
function at baseline prevented him from compensation and to
maintain appropriate cardiac output.  His blood pressure
stabilized at his customary range of systolics of 100 to 110
off pressors, and he was continued on his home medication
regimen of amiodarone, Lasix, and lisinopril.

3.  RESPIRATORY:  The patient's course was complicated by a
right hemothorax for which a chest tube was placed and
successfully drained.  The patient did develop
ventilatory-associated pneumonia and grew out
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus as well as
Pseudomonas.  He was treated with prolonged courses of
antibiotics including vancomycin and imipenem and slowly
responded with improvement in his ventilator status.  As the
patient's mental status improved, he was able to be weaned
off the ventilator.

He did have a tracheostomy placed due to his expected
prolonged course with the anticipation that once he woke up
fully he should be able to weaned off of his tracheostomy.

4.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient had no evidence of
intra-abdominal injury and tolerated tube feeds
intermittently throughout his stay.  The patient was
continued throughout the course but did develop a Clostridium
difficile colitis due to his multiple antibiotic regimen for
his ventilatory-associated pneumonia.  He was begun on
Flagyl 500 mg t.i.d. for this with good effect for his
diarrhea.

5.  ORTHOPAEDIC:  The patient had operative repair of both
his thoracic spine fractures and his sacral fracture.  He had
a spinal fusion of thoracic 5 through 8 for unstable
fractures as well as stabilization of S1 pedicle fractures.
His pubic rami fractures were felt to be stable, and he will
have full recommendations with regard to his weightbearing
status and mobility in a subsequent Discharge Summary.  The
patient was not noted to have any further orthopaedic
injuries.

6.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  As stated, the patient had multiple
infections including ventilatory-associated pneumonia and
enterococcus bacteremia and enterococcus in his cerebrospinal
fluid.  The patient had a full course of antibiotics to treat
this with good improvement and sterilization of his
cerebrospinal fluid and blood.  Ventilator-associated
pneumonia was treated with vancomycin and imipenem; although
he did maintain persistently positive cultures while on this
regimen.  He developed Clostridium difficile colitis from the
multiple antibiotic regimens and was started on Flagyl which
was be continued at the time of this dictation.  His Flagyl
was begun on [**7-5**], and he will likely need a 14-day course
of this; although the specific instructions will be in a
follow-up dictation.

The patient's fever trended down, and his white blood cell
count stabilized, and his antibiotic regimen will be tailored
prior to discharge.

7.  HEMATOLOGY:  The patient's hematocrit stabilized,
although it was slightly lo