Admission Date:  [**2114-7-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2114-7-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2042-1-15**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72-year-old
gentleman with a history of high cholesterol and hypertension
who presented after an episode of chest pain that began one
day prior at approximately 5 p.m. while playing golf.

The patient noted he had a tightness in his chest with a
severity of about [**6-12**] that radiated to his left shoulder.
The patient initially thought his pain was musculoskeletal or
possibly indigestion and he continued playing golf and
carried out his normal daily activities.

Because of the continuation of tightness, he decided to drive
to the [**Hospital 26200**] Medical Center.  The patient had a
similar episode of chest tightness while mowing his lawn two
weeks prior which remitted on its own.  While at the
[**Hospital 26200**] Hospital, the patient was found to be pain
free after medical management.  His electrocardiogram at that
time did not show any obvious ST segment elevations.
Follow-up electrocardiograms and serial cardiac enzymes
revealed a 1-mm ST segment elevation in the anterior leads,
and his cardiac enzymes returned positive.

Therefore, the patient was then transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for cardiac catheterization.  Upon
arrival the patient was shown to have an evolving myocardial
infarction with ST segment elevations in the anterior leads
with T wave inversions.

During his cardiac catheterization, the patient was found to
have a left-dominant heart with 1-vessel disease of 100%
occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery
with some faint collaterals in the right coronary artery.
Angio-Jet thrombus extraction was done at that time, and a
stent was placed in the proximal left anterior descending
artery with good TIMI-III flow.  At that time, the patient
was also found to have severe left ventricular wall motion
abnormalities including anterolateral, apical, and
inferoapical dyskinsia.  The patient was found to have a peak
creatine kinase of 3178, which was an extensive infarction.
The patient was also noted to have mild aortic stenosis.  He
was then transferred to the Coronary Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Murmur since childhood.
2.  Hypercholesterolemia.
3.  Hypertension.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  He has no significant past surgical
history.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient does not smoke or do drugs.  He
does drink socially.  He works as an optometrist in a prison
and is normally very active.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (The patient's medications on
admission included)
1.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. once per day.
2.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. once per day.
3.  Atenolol 25 mg p.o. once per day.
4.  Folate.

ALLERGIES:  He has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On examination, the
patient's vital signs revealed he was afebrile with a
temperature maximum of 99.2 degrees Fahrenheit, heart rate
ranged between 69 and 125, systolic blood pressure ranged
between 66 and 113/38 to 74.  His oxygen saturations were 94%
to 98% on 2 liters oxygen via nasal cannula.  The
ins-and-outs for the first 24 hours were 1331 in and 970 out,
for a net positive of 361 cc.  His respiratory rate ranged
between 16 and 29.  On examination, the patient was calm and
in no apparent distress.  Head and neck examination revealed
his mucous membranes were moist.  His sclerae were anicteric.
No jugular venous distention was noted.  His chest was clear
to auscultation anteriorly and laterally.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  Normal first
heart sounds and second heart sounds.  A 2/6 systolic murmur
most notable in the apex with some radiation to the carotids.
His abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended with
positive bowel sounds.  No abdominal bruits.  His extremities
revealed no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  He did have a
bandage over his right groin status post catheterization with
no bruits.  Distal pulses were 2+ bilaterally with warm foot.
Neurologic examination revealed he was alert and oriented
times three.  Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to
light.  Extraocular movements were intact.  A grossly
nonfocal examination.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   His
laboratories at that time revealed white blood cell count was
9.6, hemoglobin was 14.7, hematocrit was 41.3, and platelets
were 130.  Chemistry-7 revealed sodium was 138, potassium was
3.9, chloride was 105, bicarbonate was 24, blood urea
nitrogen was 17, creatinine was 1, and blood glucose was 100.
Calcium was 7.9, phosphorous was 2.3, and magnesium was 2.1.
Peak cardiac enzymes on [**7-24**] revealed creatine
phosphokinase was 3179, CK/MB was greater than 500, and
troponin was 19.53.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The results of his cardiac
catheterization revealed a high left anterior descending
artery lesion with total occlusion.  Status post Angio-Jet
and stent placement the patient had good TIMI-III flow.  He
was found to be left-dominant with faint collaterals from the
right coronary artery.  The patient had mild aortic valve
calcification with mild aortic stenosis.  He had an elevated
wedge pressure of 25.  A preserved cardiac index of 3.55.
Cardiac output was 6.86.  Pulmonary artery pressure of 75%.
His systemic vascular resistance was 849.  His total ejection
fraction was found to be 23% with anterobasal, lateral, and
apical hypokinesia.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  Status post
catheterization, the patient was placed on aspirin, Plavix,
Lipitor, 18 hours of Integrilin, metoprolol, and captopril.

On the evening status post catheterization, the patient had
an episode of vomiting with no associated nausea or abdominal
pain.  He then spontaneously went from a normal sinus rhythm
to atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response.
That evening, he was given a total of 15 mg of intravenous
Lopressor as well as 25 mg of oral Lopressor with a minimal
response.  Amiodarone was then administered with a bolus and
then an amiodarone drip for a total of 330 cc.

The patient had a good response of his heart rate but dropped
his systolic blood pressures to the 70s; at which time he
received a total of three 250-cc normal saline boluses, and
amiodarone was then discontinued.  The patient then continued
with normal saline fluid, but no blood pressure medications;
at which time he spontaneously converted to a normal sinus
rhythm the following morning.  The patient's blood pressure
medication had been held at that time because of his low
systolic blood pressure.

The following day the patient was still in the Coronary Care
Unit, at which time he had a transthoracic echocardiogram
which showed improved left ventricular ejection fraction of
40% with mild aortic stenosis and good right ventricular
contraction.

Because of the patient's anterior wall motion abnormalities,
it was thought that he would need long-term anticoagulation.
Therefore, Coumadin 5 mg was started at that time.  On [**7-25**], the patient did not have blood pressure medication
administered because of his continued low systolic blood
pressures.  At that time, he was on heparin but continued to
have right groin bleeding which appeared venous in nature
with a pressure dressing placed.

The following day (on [**7-26**]), the patient continued to have
bleeding from the right groin.  At that time, his heparin was
discontinued and epinephrine and lidocaine were injected into
the right groin which successfully stopped his bleeding.  The
patient did not have a hematoma or bruit and maintained good
peripheral pulses bilaterally.  His blood pressures improved
with an increase in systolic blood pressures; at which time
he was given 25 mg of Lopressor and 6.25 mg of captopril
without any episodes of hypotension.  The patient felt well
and was transferred to the floor.

The following (on [**7-27**]), overnight the patient
spontaneously went into atrial fibrillation again; at which
time he was given a total of 10 mg of intravenous Lopressor,
25 mg of oral Lopressor, as well as 10 mg of intravenous
diltiazem which appropriately controlled his rate.  The
patient then spontaneously re