Admission Date:  [**2115-12-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2116-1-4**]


Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname **] is an 82-year-old male
admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
gastrointestinal bleed, hypotension.  This gentlemen was
recently admitted one month ago for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease flare, deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary
embolus and was discharged to [**Hospital3 7**] where he was
noted today on the day of admission to have 300 cc of bright
red blood per rectum and hypotension systolic in the 80s. He
had been started on Lovenox in the hospital and on Coumadin
prior to being discharged for his venous thromboembolic
disease.  His last documented INR was 2.6 two days prior to
admission.  Patient denied any fevers, abdominal pain, nausea
or vomiting, chest pain, shortness of breath, dizziness or
lightheadedness.  He has never had gastrointestinal bleeds in
the past.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Recent deep vein thrombosis/PE and discharged for same
condition on [**2115-12-23**].  He also has a remote deep
vein thrombosis several years ago.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on two liters of
home 02 at night.  Never intubated, and not on chronic
steroids, however, is frequently on steroid tapers.  He is
also status post blood resection.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Prior CVA with right-sided weakness.
5.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
6.  Osteoporosis.
7.  A neuropathy.
8.  Status post appendectomy.
9.  Ventricular ectopy and nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia and he did have an echocardiogram in [**2115-3-21**]
showing an ejection fraction of 50%.
10. Right upper lobe mass seen on CT on the most recent
admission and also noticed on chest x-ray of this admission
whose cause is unknown, but is most likely felt to be
malignant in nature.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Prednisone 20 mg q.d. on taper.
2.  Lansoprazole.
3.  Aspirin.
4.  Zestril.
5.  Finasteride.
6.  Senna.
7.  Coumadin.
8.  Fosamax.
9.  Lasix.
10. Albuterol.
11. Atrovent MDIs.
12. Flovent.

ALLERGIES:  Patient denies any medical allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his wife of 40 years and he
quit smoking 30 years ago after an extensive pack year
history.  He is a retired lawyer in the area.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In the Emergency Room, the patient was
hypotensive in the 80s systolic range.  A femoral groin line
was placed and he was resuscitated with normal saline 4 units
of fresh frozen plasma and four units of packed red blood
cells.  Nasogastric lavage revealed small amount of coffee
ground material and a small bright red clot which cleared
with less than 500 cc normal saline.  In the Emergency
Department, he also received treatment for hypercalcemia in
the setting of his ectopy seen on monitor.

Echocardiogram was obtained which showed ST depressions in
the lateral segments and a chest x-ray revealed no pulmonary
edema, persistence of the right upper lobe mass and flattened
diaphragm.  Chest x-ray was repeated after fluid
resuscitation and remained unchanged.

Upon Medical Intensive Care Unit evaluation, physical
examination showed a temperature of 97.  Heart rate of 120
with frequent premature ventricular contractions.  Blood
pressure 170/87.  Respiratory rate of 24.  Oxygen saturation
100% on three liters per minute.  Generally, she was
tachypneic with retractions and using accessory muscles with
copious upper airway secretions.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat:  Significant for conjunctival pallor.  Pupils equal,
round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.
Neck was supple without any lymphadenopathy and difficult to
assess the jugular venous pressure due to the retractions.
There was no thyromegaly.  Cardiovascular was tachycardic
without murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Lungs were extraordinarily
decreased breath sounds with expiratory wheezing, no crackles
were noted.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, with hyperactive
bowel sounds and no hepatosplenomegaly.  The rectal exam was
deferred secondary to the perfuse amounts of maroon stool
seen in his exam.  His extremities were without edema, warm
and without palpable pulses in the feet.

LABORATORY VALUES:  Significant for a hematocrit of 41, which
subsequently decreased to 21 after intravenous fluid
resuscitation and a white blood cell count of 21.7.
Potassium is 6.4.  Coags were unable to be obtained secondary
to a laboratory error on the sample of blood prior to fresh
frozen plasma being administered.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  An abdominal CT was performed revealing
only a slightly dilated head of the pancreas consistent with
IPMT.  The remainder of his abdominal laboratories were
normal.  Patient was taken to Interventional Radiology that
night for angiography which revealed a small blush in the
duodenum which was coiled at that time by Interventional
Radiology.  [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 260**] filter was also placed in the IVC by
Interventional Radiology at the same time.  >......<cells in
the Emergency Department and he was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit for observation and had a
esophagogastroduodenoscopy the following morning which
revealed only small superficial erosions and no frank
ulcerations in the duodenum.  His hematocrit remained stable
and he was transferred to the floor.

On the floor he had a left IJ placed and his femoral line was
removed.  About the same time, he was noted to have
approximately a liter of maroon stools and also an expanding
groin hematoma at the site of the line removal.  Emergent
ultrasound of the right groin revealed a heterogenous flow in
the >.....<however, no direct fistula was seen.  Patient was
found to have had a hematocrit drop of 10 points, so he was
transferred back to the Intensive Care Unit and received
another three units of packed red blood cells.  He had a
repeat esophagogastroduodenoscopy which again showed only
superficial mucosal erosions and no blood.  He was kept NPO
and observed and colonoscopy was performed by
Gastrointestinal in the Intensive Care Unit, which revealed
diverticula, however, no evidence of bleeding.

On hospital day seven, he has had clear rectal affluent from
his GoLYTELY prep.  His diet has been advanced to clears and
his hematocrit has remained stable at 34 and he is called out
to the floor.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS/PROBLEM LIST:
1.  [**Name2 (NI) **]l bleed.  Unclear source given the
positive angiographic findings and lack of findings on
esophagogastroduodenoscopy times two and negative
colonoscopy.  His second visit to the Intensive Care Unit
regarding his decreased hematocrit may have been related to
his groin hematoma as opposed to a new gastrointestinal
bleed.  If he re-bleeds again, he should have a bleeding scan
obtained promptly and Gastrointestinal should be
re-consulted. Otherwise, he will continue to be on Protonix
and his diet should be advanced soon to full as he has been
without nutrition for seven days.
2.  Right thigh hematoma:  A repeat ultrasound demonstrated a
CFV at a CFA fistula.  This will need to be followed over
time.  There was no discrete aneurysm or pseudoaneurysms seen
and there was no flow seen in the hematoma indicating a
stable lesion.  It is likely that the triple lumen catheter
passed through the artery and then was cannulated in the
vein.  Vascular Surgery is following this patient for this
problem.
3.  Venous thromboembolic disease:  [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 260**] filter was
placed as the patient is not a candidate for anticoagulation
at this point.
4.  Intermittent atrial fibrillation while in the Intensive
Care Unit:  The patient has multiple premature ventricular
contractions and ectopy and also has atrial fibrillation,
however, again, we will not anticoagulate given his ongoing
gastrointestinal bleeding issues.
5.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease:  The patient has
severe lung disease and he will continue using a steroid
taper.  He will continue to receive his inhaled steroids
Ipratropium and albuterol.
6.  Right upper lobe mass:  Most likely being malignancy
given his extensive smoking history and the persistence of
this mass over a one month time.  His wife is aware of this
as is