Admission Date:  [**2118-7-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2118-7-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2042-11-7**]     Sex:  F

Service:  C-MED

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath times three days.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 75-year-old woman with
a history of congestive heart failure, acute renal failure,
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and peripheral vascular
disease who presents with shortness of breath and dyspnea on
exertion for three days.

The patient was in her usual state of health until
approximately three days prior to admission when she reports
running out of her Lasix pills.  Over the next few days she
became progressively more short of breath.  She denies
increased pedal edema but noticed significant worsening
orthopnea and episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  She
denies any episodes of chest pain, diaphoresis, palpitations,
nausea, and vomiting over the last several days.  She does
report decreased urine output.  She denies intractable
nausea, vomiting, confusion, neurologic symptoms, or
pruritus. She complains of pain in her right upper quadrant
for the past two days, worse with inspiration.  Otherwise,
she denies any fevers, chills, dysuria, diarrhea,
constipation, rash, sore throat, or flu-like symptoms.

She was hospital day in [**Month (only) 547**] at [**Hospital6 2561**] with
congestive heart failure and acute renal failure.  Since
then, her creatinine has been elevated; her last being 3.9.
An echocardiogram at the outside hospital had a normal
ejection fraction of 55%.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1. Congestive heart failure; recent admission to [**Hospital6 18075**] for congestive heart failure led to
evaluation with echocardiogram with an ejection fraction of
55%, dobutamine.
 2.  Acute renal failure, renal ultrasound at [**Hospital6 **] negative.  Last creatinine was 3.9 in [**2117-5-9**].
 3.  Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus times 30 years.
 4.  Hypertension; poorly controlled recently.
 5.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 6.  Peripheral vascular disease, status post femoral-femoral
bypass.
 7.  History of Lyme's disease; treated with ceftriaxone.
 8.  Status post appendectomy.
 9.  Status post cholecystectomy.
10.  Hypothyroidism.
11.  Question of temporal arteritis.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN causes hives; ASPIRIN cause stomach
burning.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d., Pravachol 20 mg p.o. q.d.,
Levoxyl 0.375 mg p.o. q.d., Cardia-XT 420 mg p.o. q.d.,
Flonase 50 mcg 2 puffs b.i.d., prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.d.,
insulin NPH 32 units q.a.m. and 10 units q.p.m.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  A 20-pack-year history of smoking; quit 20
years ago.  No alcohol use.  She is a retired illustrator.

FAMILY HISTORY:   She has three children with diabetes
mellitus.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On admission vital
signs revealed a temperature of 98.6, heart rate of 84,
respiratory rate of 24, blood pressure of 190/70, oxygen
saturation of 94% on room air and 96% on 4 liters.  In
general, tachypneic, speaking without difficulty.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed pupils were
equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles
were intact.  The oropharynx was unremarkable.  Neck was
supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  Jugular venous pressure about
10 cm to 12 cm.  Heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm.
No murmurs, gallops or rubs.  Lungs revealed crackles in
lower half of both lung fields.  Decreased breath sounds at
the bases.  The abdomen was soft, nondistended, normal active
bowel sounds.  Mild tenderness in the right upper quadrant.
No [**Doctor Last Name **].  Extremities revealed no clubbing, cyanosis or
edema.  Pedal pulses were 2+.  Neurologic examination
revealed no wrist or ankle drop.  Strength was [**6-12**] in the
extremities.  No asterixis.  No myoclonus.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  On admission
white blood cell count was 15.1, hematocrit of 33.6,
platelets of 231.   Differential revealed 77.4% neutrophils,
17.2% lymphocytes, and 4.7% monocytes.  Sodium of 140,
potassium of 4.6, chloride of 100, bicarbonate of 24, blood
urea nitrogen of 106, creatinine of 4.8, blood glucose of 82.
Urinalysis revealed 0 red blood cells, 0 to 2 white blood
cells, rare bacteria.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus
rhythm with a heart rate of 68, normal axis, no Q waves, 2-mm
ST depressions in V6 and 1 mm in V5, a nonspecific conduction
delay.

Chest x-ray revealed pulmonary edema, blunted angles.

IMPRESSION:  This is a 75-year-old woman with a history of
congestive heart failure, acute renal failure (now chronic),
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and hypertension who
presented with shortness of breath after running out of her
Lasix three days prior to admission.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Initially, the patient was thought to be
volume overloaded given her chest x-ray.  There was no clear
evidence of any cardiac event causing her congestive heart
failure.  A normal ejection fraction on recent echocardiogram
suggesting diastolic heart failure possibly secondary to
longstanding hypertension and decreased renal function.

This situation was thought to be exacerbated by her
acute-on-chronic renal failure with a decreased response to
diuretics.  In the Emergency Department she only put out
100 cc of urine to 80 mg of intravenous Lasix in two hours.

The patient's cardiac enzymes were cycled, and she ruled out
for a myocardial infarction.  Her beta blocker was held
initially and then restarted after two days.  She was
initially on a nitroglycerin drip, and she was given
Lasix 160 mg times one.

For coronaries, she was continued on her statin and atenolol.
The patient was initially placed on Lasix 80 mg intravenous
b.i.d. and Zaroxolyn.  She was also continued on her calcium
channel blocker initially for hypertension control.

An echocardiogram showed moderate 2+ mitral regurgitation,
moderate symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy, an ejection
fraction of greater than 60%, mild left atrial enlargement,
left ventricle with a restrictive filling pattern, mild
pulmonary hypertension, a small pericardial effusion.

Because the patient's creatinine was continuing to rise, her
Lasix and Zaroxolyn were both decreased, and clonidine was
added for blood pressure control.  The patient had some
episodes of bradycardia which led to an unstable blood
pressure at the beginning of her stay.  Eventually, the
patient was switched back to Lasix 80 mg b.i.d. (which is her
home dose).  Her blood pressure control remained poor.

On [**7-14**], because her creatinine continued to worsen, her
Lasix was discontinued altogether.  Her hypertension
improved, but her clonidine was titrated further to have
better control.

On [**7-15**], the patient went for her Perm-A-Cath and
arteriovenous fistula for hemodialysis initiation, and while
she was in the operating room was bradycardic to the 20s and
received atropine.  She also had a pause in her
electrocardiogram.

Postoperatively, her heart rate continued to be in the 30s
and 40s, and she was hypothermic, but her blood pressure was
preserved.  She was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit for
one night for observation overnight.  Her beta blocker was
held, as was her calcium channel blocker.  The source of the
bradycardia was unclear.  The pacer pads were in place but
were not used.

The following day, her heart rate improved and she was
transferred back out to the floor.  Given the fact that
hemodialysis was inevitable, and ACE inhibitor was added to
her regimen for hypertension.

On [**7-17**], a low-dose beta blocker was restarted.  The
patient tolerated this well.  A lipid panel was checked and
was found to be within normal limits.  Her statin was then
discontinued given her elevated ALT and AST.

While she was in the Coronary Care Unit, she was also ruled
out for a myocardial infarction; although, her troponin was
slightly elevated at 0.7 (probably due to renal failure).

2.  RENAL:  The patient presented with acute-on-chronic renal
insufficiency.  This was thought to be progression of her
intrinsic renal disease which may be secondary to her
diabetes or hypertension, or maybe seconda