Admission Date:  [**2196-12-5**]     Discharge Date: [**2196-12-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2130-8-30**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU Oange Team#58

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is transferred from
[**Hospital3 **] for hypoxemic respiratory failure.  He is a
66 year-old man with known past medical history but who has
not brought medical care for many years who was brought to
[**Hospital3 **] [**12-2**] of shortness of breath times several
weeks.  Upon arrival patient was found to have an oxygen
saturation in the 70s, was cyanotic, discovered on imaging to
have a large right sided pleural effusion with white-out of
the right hemithorax.  Patient also had a white blood cell
count of 20.5 with 89 percent polys.  A right chest tube was
placed after intubation with greater than 4 liters of
serosanguinous fluid drained.  Subsequent CT of the chest
showed complete obstruction of the right main stem bronchus
with right effusion and total right lung collapse.  He also
had a left effusion of moderate size with atelectasis of the
left lung posteriorly at lingula.  Patient also was severely
hypercapnic on presentation with pCO2 of 85 and a pH of 7.2.
After CT patient underwent bronchoscopy with confirmation of
right main stem total occlusion.  Patient also had
endobronchial biopsies of this right main stem lesion.
Pathology and cytology from the bronchoscopy was sent.
Patient's oxygenation and ventilatory status were stabilized
and he was transferred here for further evaluation and
management and possible stenting procedure of his right main
stem bronchus.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.6, blood pressure
105/62, heart rate 94, respirations 16, oxygen saturation 94
percent on 50 percent FIO2.  Vent was SIMV mode 500 cc, 12
breaths per minute, pedal volumes are about 350 cc, pressure
support was 8, PEEP was 10, FIO2 50 percent.  Generally he is
an obese plethoric male intubated but alert and responding to
questions.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  plethoric
edematous face, anicteric, pupils equal, round, reactive to
light.  Neck is supple, extremely large, unable to assess
jugular venous pressure.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and
rhythm, normal S1, S2, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Chest:
bandage at right chest tube site, clean, dry and intact.
Decreased breath sounds over entire right side, and decreased
breath sounds at the left base.  No wheezes, rhonchi or
rales.  Abdomen: question of paradoxical abdominal movements
with respiration.  Soft, nontender, nondistended, normal
active bowel sounds.  Extremities:  Edematous hands but
nonedematous feet, cyanosis cool fingers bilaterally.
Patient with clubbing of his toes bilaterally.
Neurologically he is alert, answering questions and writing
appropriately.  Moving all extremities symmetrically.

LABORATORY DATA:  At the outside hospital - white count 11.9,
hematocrit 32.5, platelets 358, 89 percent polys, 4 percent
lymphocytes.  INR 0.9.  PTT 26.8.  Sodium 131, potassium 5.5,
chloride 93, bicarbonate 33, BUN 16, creatinine 0.6, glucose
141, albumin 2.1, total protein 6.1, total bilirubin 0.6,
direct bilirubin 0.1, alkaline phosphatase 97, ALT 34, AST
30, LDH 139.  CK peak was 95, 26 upon transfer.  CEA was 1.9.
Troponin I was initially 0.15 with a peak of 2.0 which
decreased back down to 0.9 upon transfer.  Pleural fluid:
glucose72, LDH 139, amylase 27, total protein 3.9, pH 8.0,
hazy, white blood cell count [**Pager number **], red blood cells 3,850, 82
percent polys, 16 percent lymphocytes, 2 percent monocytes.
CT of the chest showed extremely large right sided pleural
effusion with right lung collapse suspicious for underlying
tumor, right chest tube in place, moderate size left pleural
effusion with subsequent atelectasis, posterior left lung and
lingula.  Small pericardial effusion, no evident pulmonary
embolism and small ascites.  Chest x-ray shows significant
change from prior films with large right pleural effusion
opacifying entire right hemithorax.  Small left effusion and
an endotracheal tube and orogastric tube in satisfactory
positions.  Electrocardiogram showed diffusely low voltage,
normal sinus rhythm at 65, flat T waves throughout, T waves
in V1 through V3.  Pathology from right main stem
endobronchial biopsy at [**Hospital3 **] came back positive
for nonsmall cell lung cancer, poorly differentiated.
Cytology from 3 cc of pleural fluid came back negative for
malignancy.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1) Right main stem bronchial obstruction.
Patient transferred from [**Hospital3 **] for stent of right
main stem bronchus.  Endobronchial biopsy performed at
[**Hospital1 **] - 3 cc of right effusion sent for cytology which was
negative for malignancy.  Right main stem bronchial biopsy
came back positive for nonsmall cell lung cancer, poorly
differentiated.  His right main stem lesion was debulked and
the right main stem bronchial stent was placed although his
right lung remained collapsed [and his right chest tube
drainage increased slightly but his right effusion remains
large.  He also had a moderate size left effusion, status
post left thoracentesis drainage of 1800 cc.  Laboratory
analysis of his left effusion is pending.  He is to have a
pleurodesis of his right lung Monday [**12-12**].  Radiation
oncology is consulting for possible palliative radiation
therapy to reinflate his right lung.

2) Nonsmall cell lung cancer newly diagnosed, likely stage 4
as CT scan shows left adrenal fullness.  Hematology oncology
and radiation oncology were consulted for possible palliative
treatment.  Head CT was negative.  Bone scan to be done [**12-12**]
for full staging procedure.  Chest CT showed evidence of left
adrenal fullness and superior vena cava syndrome with
associated nonobstructing superior vena cava clot.  Radiation
oncology will leave final recommendations for possible
radiation therapy treatment to reinflate right lung.
Pleurodesis planned for right lung [**12-12**].  Heparin drip
started for evidence of clot in the superior vena cava and
possible clot in the right atrium on CT scan.

3) Coronary artery disease.  Patient with episode of 22 beats
of ventricular tachycardia and multiple recurrent episodes of
stable ventricular tachycardia.  He underwent catheterization
prior to stenting procedure which revealed non-intervenable
three vessel disease.  He was continued on aspirin, beta
blocker and ACE inhibitor.  He continued to have several
episodes of stable ventricular tachycardia and his potassium
and magnesium were repleted aggressively.  Electrocardiogram
upon transfer here showed new Q waves in leads 1 and AVL and
cycle troponins were decreasing here.  Electrocardiograms
have remained unchanged since transfer.

4) Code status:  The patient is a Do Not Intubate as per him
and his wife.




                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5837**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8285**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5819**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2196-12-11**]  16:51
T:  [**2196-12-11**]  17:56
JOB#:  [**Job Number 53752**]
