Admission Date:  [**2136-7-31**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2069-7-20**]       Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was admitted on
[**2136-7-31**] with a chief complaint of confusion.  The
patient is a 66 year old female with a history of Lithium
toxicity who presented with increasing confusion, lethargy
and dehydration for the last five days.  The patient claims
that on the day of admission she fell out of bed with
increased confusion.  The patient had an episode of increased
Lithium toxicity in [**2135-7-12**] with similar complaints.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Past medical history includes
depression, hypothyroidism and chronic renal insufficiency.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Prozac
2.  Lithium

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No alcohol, no drug use, had a 30 pack year
smoking and had no children.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission
included a temperature of 102, heartrate 45 ,blood pressure
127/55.  General:  The patient was confused, unaware and
unalert.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils are
equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation,
extraocular movements intact.  Extremely dry mucous
membranes.  Neck was supple, no lymphadenopathy was felt.
Chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:
Bradycardia.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Gastrointestinal,
soft, nontender, nondistended with positive bowel sounds.
Rectal, stool was guaiac negative.  Extremities, no cyanosis,
clubbing or edema.  Skin had no evidence of any rashes.

LABORATORY DATA:  Electrocardiogram on admission had
bradycardia with 46 rate per minute, old right bundle branch
block compared with an electrocardiogram of [**2136-8-10**]
which was the same.  Labs on admission included a white count
of 20.1, hematocrit 40.7, platelets 472,000.  88.9%
neutrophils, 0 bands, 7 lymphs, 3 monocytes.  Chem-7 was
140/4.9, 96/31, BUN with creatinine of 45/3.0, glucose 146.
Urinalysis had a trace protein and otherwise negative.
Lithium on admission is level of 1.6, TSH was done and was
pending.  Chest x-ray was negative.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for aggressive hydration.  Blood cultures
were done.  The patient also had a head computerized
tomography scan and an lumbar puncture performed at that
time.  The patient had an arterial blood gases done at 7:45
on the day of admission which revealed 7.41, 53, and 63 with
lactate of 2.3 and free calcium of 2.08.  The night the
patient was admitted the patient began developing some
electrocardiogram changes including progression of loss of P
waves near the right bundle branch block over serial
electrocardiograms.  The patient down to 30s and Atropine was
given.  Her heartrate then recovered.  The patient then
developed severe swelling of her vocal cords.  The patient
was intubated for airway protection and began aggressive
hydration and Lasix diuresis to push calcium down.  Central
line and arterial lines were placed at that time.  The
patient had her ionized calcium monitored that went from 2.08
down to 1.65 on [**8-1**].  In addition the Lithium levels
went down to 1.1.  TSH came back, it was to 6.3 at that time.
Cerebrospinal fluid Gram stain had no polys seen, no
organisms.  The cultures were pending, otherwise the lumbar
puncture was normal.  Chest x-ray at that time also with
elevated right hemidiaphragm.  The patient on [**8-2**] had
an echocardiogram performed which was essentially unchanged
from the previous study from [**2134**].  Left ventricular function
was 55%, ascending aorta was mildly dilated.  The aortic
valve leaflets were mildly thickened, no aortic
regurgitation, 1+ tricuspid regurgitation, borderline
pulmonary hypertension.  Precordium had a fat pad versus
small effusion of question.

The patient remained somewhat hypotensive in the unit with
heartrates in the bradycardiac range of 30s to 50s.  The
patient was worked up for DIC with a fibrinogen level of 247,
D-dimer less than 500, also CKs were negative and troponin I
were negative.  Urinalysis remained clear.  The patient had
hypotensive episodes, was febrile and was with infiltrates
versus effusion on chest x-ray with chronic renal
insufficiency.  The patient was then started on antibiotics
for what was presumed to be pneumonia.  The patient was
started on Levofloxacin, Vancomycin and Flagyl for a ten day
course of Levofloxacin and seven day course of Vancomycin and
a seven day course of Flagyl.  Endocrinology was consulted
due to the patient's increased hypercalcemia as well as the
patient's hypothyroidism.  It was felt that the increased
calcium was probably due to the Lithium toxicity as well as
the hypothyroidism.  The patient was continued on the current
medication of Synthroid.  From an infectious disease
standpoint the patient remained febrile and had an lumbar
puncture which was negative for any source of infection.  The
patient had multiple blood cultures which none ever having
grown any organisms.  The patient also had a bronchoscopy for
finding organisms which was negative.  No stressor or any
evidence of any infection was ever found.  The patient
remained intubated in the Newborn Intensive Care Unit due to
what they thought was pneumonia or sepsis like syndrome and
hypertension and decreased respirations.  The patient was
extubated on [**2136-8-15**] as the patient's oxygenation
and respiratory drive improved.  The patient was transferred
to the floor on [**2136-8-16**].  The patient's oxygen
saturations were 94% on 2 liters and was stable.

The patient was being transferred to the Medicine Service for
further evaluation of her psychological issues which she
developed while she was in the Intensive Care Unit,
monitoring of her calcium and thyroid status and correction
of hypernatremia with continuing monitoring of her blood
pressure which had been stabilized.  The patient is being
followed by Psychiatry, Endocrine and Physical therapy at
that time.  Because she was found to be sating fairly well on
94% on 2 liters by nasal cannula, it was planned to decrease
her oxygen as tolerated.  Her pneumonia had resolved and no
treatment was needed at that time.  Her blood pressure was
stable and she came to the floor and her previous hypotensive
state was attributed to hypothyroidism, but she was now being
treated with Synthroid.  From a Psychiatry standpoint, we
obtained RPR which came back negative, and B12 and Folate
were within normal limits.  An magnetic resonance imaging
scan of her head was obtained which also was negative for any
acute events or acute ischemia.

On [**2136-8-17**], it was noted on examination that she
had some proximal weakness of her right upper extremity with
2/5 strength in the right upper extremity, abduction.  This
was later attributed to brachyopathy secondary to just having
her longstanding stay in the Intensive Care Unit.  In
subsequent days it appeared to resolved with increasing
strength.  Given her persistent low level hypernatremia, we
obtained a urine osmolality on [**2136-8-16**] which
revealed a urine osmolality of 176 and a urine sodium of 44.
At that time her serum sodium was 149.  Because of her
relative hypernatremia, her expected urine osmolality should
have been slightly higher.  Given her long history of Lithium
use we attributed her hypernatremia thus to nephrogenic
diabetes insipidus secondary to Lithium use.  We then started
her subsequently on DDAVP.  On [**2136-8-20**] at
approximately 7:45 AM the patient had a witnessed tonoclonic
generalized seizure which lasted 2 to 3 minutes.  Her oxygen
saturation decreased and she was placed on 100% nonrebreather
after which her oxygen saturation recovered into the mid 90s.
The patient never recovered to her pre-seizure mental status
following the event.  Approximately one hour later she
suffered another generalized tonoclonic seizure witnessed by
the house officer and nursing staff.  The patient did not
lose fecal incontinence.  The patient had a Foley catheter
and the patient was afebrile at the time.  She was found to
be confused and restless postictally and with only partial
recovery of her mental st