Admission Date:  [**2101-12-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2102-1-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2025-8-4**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Location (un) 259**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 76 year-old
male with a history of esophageal cancer, type 2 diabetes,
who presented to the Emergency Department with a chief
complaint of weakness.  The patient has been in declining
health since [**2101-8-24**] secondary to his esophageal
cancer and has noted decreasing po intake secondary to
mucositis over the last few months.  The patient has also
complained of increasing bilateral lower extremity edema over
the last month and has been seen by his primary care
physician in the past for intravenous fluid administration.
On the day of presentation the patient once again presented
originally to his primary care physician, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 34867**] [**Name (STitle) 32412**],
requesting intravenous fluid administration.  The patient was
thought to be significantly dehydrated on examination and was
therefore referred to the Emergency Department for
evaluation.

In the Emergency Department the patient was noted to have a
heart rate in the 140s with progressive hypoxia to as low as
77% on a nonrebreather.  The patient was subsequently
immediately admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for
progressive hypoxia.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive for a cough for the last three
to four weeks, which was worse when he attempted to eat or
drink anything, as well as a low grade temperature and chills
for the last two days.  The patient also has noted
significantly increasing leg edema over the last few weeks.
At the time of admission to the Emergency Department, the
patient tripped and fell and hit his head on his way into the
Emergency Department.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Esophageal cancer treated with
local radiation therapy, 5FU, Cisplatin diagnosed in [**2101-8-24**].  2.  Status post Billroth 2 in the [**2060**] secondary
to peptic ulcer disease.  3.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus times
ten years.  4.  Polio as a child.  5.  Questionable abruption
of many deep venous thrombosis.  6.  Recurrent bladder
infections.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin causes a rash.

MEDICATIONS:  NPH.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Tobacco use in the past, but quit in the
[**2050**] and reports a three pack per day history times twenty
years prior to this.  The patient denies any alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient has a son who has been diagnosed
with renal cell carcinoma.  The patient's primary care
physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 34867**] [**Name (STitle) 32412**] and he is followed by
oncologist Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs, temperature 99.4.  Heart
rate 140.  Blood pressure 122/75.  Respiratory rate 16.
Sating 98% on room air and then subsequently 77% on 100% face
mask.  General, ill appearing, elderly thin male.  HEENT
right temple with ecchymosis, pupils are equal, round and
reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Poor
dentition.  Cardiovascular tachycardic, no murmurs.
Pulmonary diffuse rales.  Abdomen soft, midline surgical
scar.  Rectal examination guaiac negative.  Extremities 3+
bilateral lower extremity edema to the knees.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 7.7, hematocrit 29.7,
platelets 225, sodium 127, potassium 4.4, chloride 94, bicarb
27, BUN 18, creatinine 0.7, glucose 288.  Free calcium 1.05.
Arterial blood gas 7.48/30/67/lactate equals 1.8.  Chest
x-ray bibasilar infiltrates in the dependent regions.  CT of
the head no evidence of bleed or mass, but low attenuation
left cerebellar area.  CT of the chest, diffuse infiltrate
consistent with congestive heart failure, but no evidence of
PE.  Electrocardiogram, atrial flutter at 150 beats per
minute.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was noted to have marked
hypoxia at the time of admission, which was originally
thought to be secondary to a PE, however, his CT angiogram
was negative.  The CT scan also demonstrated evidence of an
alveolar process, which was felt to be congestive heart
failure versus pneumonia.  Given the lack of fever, sputum or
increased white blood cell counts and given the patient's
symptoms of increasing lower extremity edema, it was felt to
be most likely secondary to congestive heart failure.
However, the patient was also noted to have a
supraventricular tachycardia versus atrial flutter of unclear
etiology.  The patient was treated with intravenous Diltiazem
push without change in his pulse, however, his systolic blood
pressure did drop to the 70s.  Therefore an emergent
cardiology consult was obtained and cardioversion was
attempted with conscious sedation.  Further diuresis was put
on hold pending potential cardioversion.  However,
cardioversion was attempted with 200 jewels and then 300 and
360 jewels without success resulting in a rhythm of
multifocal atrial tachycardia.  Cardiology consult
subsequently recommended attempting rate control with an
Esmolol drip, initiating gentle diuresis and obtaining a
portable echocardiogram to assess function and valvular
disease.

The patient was placed on an Esmolol and a neo-synephrine
drip, which were titrated as needed to keep a mean blood
pressure of greater then 60 and a rate less then 100.  The
patient was treated with Lasix for gentle diuresis and
cardiac enzymes were cycled to evaluate for the potential of
myocardial ischemia as an initiating event.  The patient's
multifocal atrial tachycardia persisted and an echocardiogram
was obtained.  The echocardiogram demonstrated 4+ MR with a
flail mitral leaflet and a normal end systolic dimensions.  A
vegetation could not be definitively ruled out.  Given that
blood cultures obtained at the time of admission were
subsequently demonstrating gram positive coxae in pairs and
chains it was felt the patient was most likely suffering from
endocarditis.  By this time the patient was hemodynamically
stable, however, with persistent MAT.  Given the acute onset
of mitral regurgitation vasodilator therapy such as ace
inhibitor and nitroglycerin were initiated as tolerated.  The
possibility of surgical correction was discussed with the
patient and his family who stated that they did not want
surgery under any circumstances.  Therefore it was determined
to attempt medical management of the patient's acute mitral
regurgitation and endocarditis.

As the patient underwent gentle diuresis his oxygen
saturations began to improve and his supplemental oxygen
needs were slowly titrated down.  The patient's
neo-synephrine drip was titrated off and the patient was
started on Captopril [**Company 34868**].i.d.

An infectious disease consult was obtained to help in the
management of endocarditis.  The infectious disease consult
recommended removing the patient's Port-A-Cath so that the
infection would be easier to cure with antibiotics.  They
felt the most likely bug responsive was staph aureus versus
enterococcus versus strep viridans versus a coag negative
staph and therefore requested treatment with Penicillin.
Given the patient's history of a Penicillin allergy
desensitization to the drug was initiated per protocol.  The
patient's blood culture results demonstrated enterococcus,
which was Ampicillin sensitive and therefore the patient was
placed on Penicillin therapy intravenously with Gentamycin
for synergy for two weeks after therapy.

Over the next few hospital days the patient's Captopril dose
was titrated up as tolerated and his supplemental oxygen
requirement was titrated down.  The patient's heart rate
remained tachycardic, which is felt to be likely a
compensatory response given the patient's poor forward flow
secondary to acute mitral regurgitation.

On [**12-30**] the patient was felt to be stable enough to be
transferred to the floor.  The patient had been off of
pressor therapy for the last 48 hours and was tolerating low
doses of ace inhibitor for afterload reduction.

However, on the evening following transfer to the flor the
patient became suddenly tachycardic and hypotensive with a
blood pressure in the 70s and a heart rate in the 150s.  The
patient was treated with 5 mg intravenous Lopressor time