Admission Date:  [**2154-8-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2154-8-30**]

Date of Birth:   [**2083-5-28**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine, [**Doctor Last Name **] Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71-year-old man with a
past medical history significant for coronary artery disease
with an ejection fraction of 35%, diabetes, congestive heart
failure, and hypertension who presented to the Emergency Room
with two days of chest pain on the left sternal border.  The
pain is not related to position or exertion.  He also
describes shortness of breath and nausea, but no vomiting,
and mild diaphoresis.

On arrival to the Emergency Room electrocardiogram showed a
left bundle-branch block with lateral lead ST depressions
slightly worse than baseline.  The patient received
sublingual nitroglycerin in the Emergency Room with
resolution of pain.  He was seen by a Cardiology
consultation, and a portal echocardiogram showed a small
effusion, but no tamponade.  Initial cardiac enzymes were a
creatine kinase of 218, with a MB of 8%, troponin of 28.
Hematocrit at the time of admission was 25%.  It was felt
that his increase in enzymes were most likely due to demand
ischemia, and he was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit for observation and workup.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease.  [**2154-8-1**], echocardiogram
showed bilateral ventricular hypokinesis, left ventricular
dilation with moderate global hypokinesis of the septum and
anterior wall, and systolic hypertension with 2+ mitral
regurgitation.  [**7-26**] stress test was negative for angina
with uninterpretable electrocardiogram.  Persantine MIBI
showed an ejection fraction of 23% with diffuse global
hypokinesis and some revascularity in the anterolateral and
septal walls consistent with dilated cardiomyopathy.
2.  Peripheral vascular disease.  The patient is status post
right below-knee amputation in [**2153-7-21**] secondary to
nonhealing ulcers from an open reduction, internal fixation
of an ankle break.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Congestive heart failure.
5.  Atrial fibrillation.
6.  Depression/anxiety.
7.  Insulin-dependent diabetes.
8.  Hypothyroidism.


MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.,
Captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d., digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d.,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d., Provigil 100 mg p.o. q.d.,
Risperdal 1 mg p.o. q.d., Tegretol 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. and
400 mg p.o. q.h.s., Avandia 4 mg p.o. b.i.d., Cytomel 25 mg
p.o. q.d., amitriptyline 200 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o.
q.d., Prozac 20 mg p.o. q.d., spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.d.,
NPH 88 units q.a.m., regular insulin sliding-scale 10 units
q.a.m.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 99, blood
pressure 167/64, pulse 83, oxygen saturation 98% on 2 liters.
In general, the patient was lying comfortably in bed, in no
acute distress.  HEENT revealed no lymphadenopathy.  Pupils
were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Poor dentition.
Extraocular movements were intact.  Mucous membranes were
moist.  Cardiovascular had a regular rate and rhythm, normal
S1 and S2.  No jugular venous pressure.  Pulmonary revealed
crackles at bilateral bases.  No wheezes or rhonchi.  Abdomen
was soft, nontender, and nondistended, bowel sounds were
present.  Extremities revealed right below-knee amputation,
1+ popliteal pulse on the right, left 1+ popliteal, and 1+
dorsalis pedis pulse.  Neurologically, the patient was awake,
alert and oriented.  Cranial nerves were intact.  The patient
appeared mildly confused and was a poor historian.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  On admission, white blood cell
count was 14.5, hemoglobin 8, hematocrit 23.2, platelet count
of 213, MCV 91.  MCH 31.  MCHC 34.  IDW 12.2.  Sodium 132,
potassium 5.5, chloride 94, bicarbonate 20, BUN 62,
creatinine 3.6, glucose 270, gap of 24.  Urinalysis was
negative for blood, nitrites, protein, ketones, bilirubin.
Was positive for glucose of greater than 1000, pH of 6.
AST 19, ALT 19, total bilirubin 0.3, LDH 305.  Creatine
kinases were 217, 202, 315, 408, 314.  CK/MB were 18, 14, 12,
9, 5.  Troponin was 28, 38, 35.  Digoxin level was within
therapeutic range.  Iron studies revealed TBC 228,
haptoglobin 451, transferrin 157, ferritin 316, B12 was 471,
folate greater than 20, iron 18, total bilirubin 0.3,
reticulocyte count was 2.2.  PT 12.5, PTT 25, INR 1.  Blood
smear was normal.  TSH 1.1, T4 was 5.3, T3 was 6, free T4
was 1.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray on [**8-24**] showed mild
congestive heart failure.

Abdominal and pelvic CT of [**8-24**] revealed severe bilateral
hydronephrosis without stones.  No retroperitoneal
hemorrhage.  Small bilateral pleural effusions.

Head CT on [**8-24**] showed no acute bleed, and no infarction.


HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient ruled in for a
myocardial infarction with enzymes believed to demand induce
ischemia due to the low hematocrit.  After pain was resolved
in the Emergency Department with sublingual nitroglycerin,
the patient had no more symptoms of pain.  An echocardiogram
was done on [**8-26**] which showed severe depression in the
left ventricular function.  The patient was not heparinized
given the low hematocrit and concern for a bleeding source.
Beta blockers were held secondary to primary AV block, first
degree AV block seen on electrocardiogram.  The beta blockers
were restarted on [**8-26**] at low doses.  P-R interval was
0.28, so beta blocker dose was not increased.  The patient
was also treated with low-dose aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
Digoxin was held.  ACE inhibitor was held because of renal
failure.

2.  ANEMIA:  The patient's hematocrit was 25 on admission
with an unidentified source of bleeding or drop in
hematocrit.  In addition to chest pain, the patient also
later complained of fatigue for several months.  The patient
was transfused 6 units of blood while in the Medical
Intensive Care Unit, and his hematocrit increased to 35,
where it remained stable.  Workup for his anemia included
hemolysis laboratories which were negative, iron laboratories
which were normal except for a low iron, and the patient also
had a low reticulocyte count.

Hematology was consulted, and they did a bone marrow biopsy
on [**8-28**] which was negative for myelodysplasia or multiple
myeloma.  SPEP and UPEP were also sent which were negative.
There was no evidence of a [**Last Name 15482**] problem at this point.  It
was believed that the cause of the anemia was likely
multifactorial including iron deficiency anemia, anemia of
chronic disease, and anemia due to renal failure/diabetes
which can depress erythropoietin levels.  At this time, his
erythropoietin level was pending.  The patient has been
treated with iron supplementation, and will consider adding
Epogen if erythropoietin levels are low.

3.  URINE RETENTION:  On admission, in initial
catheterization, the patient had 1 liter of residual urine in
the bladder.   CT of the abdomen showed bilateral
hydronephrosis without stones.  Urinalysis was positive for
red blood cells, protein, and glucose but negative for
ketones.

A Urology consultation was obtained on [**8-27**], and the
belief was that the urine retention was due to a combination
of a neurogenic bladder due to diabetes and benign prostatic
hypertrophy.  The patient was started on Flomax, and the
Foley catheter was to be kept in place for one week for
decompression of the bladder.  After that time, t.i.d.
straight catheterizing was recommended until residual are
less than 300 cc, and then the intermittent catheterization
could be decreased to b.i.d., and etcetera.

4.  RENAL:  The patient's creatinine on admission was 3.3,
and he was in acute renal failure due to hydronephrosis and
bladder obstruction.  His bladder was decompressed and
creatinine continually decreased throughout his
hospitalization.  There was no evidence of worsening of his
renal problems.  [**Name (NI) **] continued to diuresis daily of 1 liter to
1.5 liters per day.  At the time of discharge, he was
negative 10 liters to 12 liters for this admission.  Epogen
levels were pending and will consider treating the patient
with Epogen if the level is low.

5.  HYPERTENSION:  The patient was started on nit