Admission Date:  [**2199-12-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2200-1-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2124-5-24**]       Sex:  F

Service:  ACOVE

CHIEF COMPLAINT:
1. Dyspnea.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 75 year-old
female who was in her usual state of health until three days
prior to admission when she developed a cough with thick,
green sputum. She had increased dyspnea on exertion and had
shortness of breath with increased wheezes.  The patient had
been visiting her family in [**Location 8398**]and had sick
contact in that her grandson had an upper respiratory
infection.  She denies any chills.  She did have borderline
fever but no documented temperature.  Denies any chest pain
or pressure. Denies any edema, orthopnea or paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea.  She denies any lower extremity trauma.
She did have a car trip to [**State 531**]. She denies any change in
her urine or bowel habits.  The patient at baseline is not
limited by her pulmonary symptoms. She does have a chronic
cough with light sputum.  She denies any hemoptysis.

In the Emergency Department the patient had vomited once but
there was no bleeding. She was found to have an oxygen
saturation of 70% on room air with nebulizers oxygen
saturation increased to 94%.  Her ABG showed pH 7.21, CO2 71,
oxygen of 76.  The patient was tried on CPAP but was unable
to tolerate it.

Review of systems are otherwise negative.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease though the patient
is not entirely aware of this diagnosis. In [**2198-6-19**]
she had FEV1/FVC 68% predicted.  PFTs were read as mild
obstructive pattern with hyperinflation. She has never been
intubated.
2.  Osteoarthritis.
3.  de Quervain tenosynovitis.
4.  Only peripheral vision in the right eye.

ALLERGIES: Penicillin and Sulfa which cause rashes.  Tylenol
causes GI upset.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   She lives with her son. She is able to do
ADLs. She does not need home O2 and had smoked for 50 years
and now is at 10 cigarettes per day. She was formerly a
housewife. Her husband died of asbestos exposure. She worked
at a bank briefly.

FAMILY HISTORY: Mother died of stroke and pneumonia.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Albuterol inhaler prn.
2.  Ibuprofen prn.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Heart rate 89, respiratory rate 22,
blood pressure 112/82.  Saturation at 92% on 40% face mask.
She was afebrile. She was in mild respiratory distress.
HEENT - pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.
Extraocular muscles are intact.  Oropharynx was clear. Neck
was supple, no lymphadenopathy.  Cardiac - regular rate and
rhythm with normal S1, S2, no murmur, rub or gallop.  Lungs -
inspiratory ratio is 1 to 3, diffuse expiratory wheezes, no
rhonchi or rales, egophony or dullness.  The abdomen was
soft, nontender, nondistended.  No hepatosplenomegaly.
Extremities - no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Skin - no
rashes.  Neuro - she is alert and oriented times 3. Cranial
nerves III through XII are intact.  She has 5/5 strength in
all extremities. Sensation was intact.  She had +2 deep
tendon reflexes.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her chest x-ray showed no acute changes and
no evidence of infiltrates or effusions.

White count is 9.9, hematocrit 45, platelet count 215,000,
sodium 128, potassium 9.7, bicarb 36, chloride 91, BUN 17,
creatinine 0.5, glucose 113. The sample was closely hemolyzed
and all values were mostly likely incorrect.

Her EKG showed sinus tachycardia with incomplete right bundle
branch block.  No ST-T wave changes.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  The patient is a 75 year-old female
with acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.  Her dyspnea is most likely related to this
exacerbation of COPD which is most likely triggered by an
upper respiratory infection.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:

1.  PULMONARY - The patient was found to have COPD
exacerbation secondary to upper respiratory infection.  She
did not have a fever during this admission and had no
infiltrates on x-ray.  She did not have any evidence of a
bacterial pneumonia.  However in the setting of her acute
exacerbation, she was started on Levofloxacin for a seven day
course at 500 milligrams po q day.  She completed her course
during this hospital stay.  Additionally she was placed on IV
Solu-Medrol at 80 milligrams IV tid for initially two days.
On the third day of admission she was switched to po
prednisone.  She was continued on the face mask for her
oxygen and still required 35 to 40% oxygen.  Two days prior
to discharge and the day prior to discharge she was switched
to nasal cannula and is tolerating this well. On the day of
discharge her oxygen saturation was 96% on three liters nasal
cannula.  She is slowly improving.

She was initially switched to po steroids.  However on the
fourth day of admission she had not improved as well as
expected. Consequently she was re-started back on her IV
steroids.  She was again started on Solu-Medrol 80 milligrams
IV tid.  She was switched back to po prednisone on the day
prior to discharge.  Her continued improvement despite the
change from IV to oral suggests that she did not have any
negative affects from this transition.  She will need to be
counseled for quitting smoking and will probably need a
pneumovax in the near future and flu vaccine every year from
now.  She will also need to have PFTs done when she is more
stable.

Her gram stain did show 3+ gram positive cocci in pair,
unchanged, 10 to 25 polymorphonuclear cells and less than 10
epithelials cells. However no significant pathogen was noted
in the culture. She may have had a strep pneumo but no
radiographic findings of that.

She was also given nebulizers, Albuterol and Atrovent and
then switched to inhalers Albuterol, Atrovent, Serevent and
Flovent.  These should be continued as an outpatient.

2.  EAR, NOSE AND THROAT - The patient complained of
dizziness during the course of admission. She also complained
of left ear fullness. When her ears were examined no
hematuria was seen. No evidence of fullness. Both tympanic
membranes were equal to light bilaterally. She did not have
any drainage from the ear. She did not report any decrease in
hearing. She did have some mild ringing.  Additionally she
now complained of vertiginous symptoms when she turned her
head to either side she would feel dizzy. She also felt
nauseous. She did have an episode of vomiting but it was
negative for any blood.

She initially refused an MRI because of her claustrophobia.
A head CT scan without contrast was done and it was negative
for any mass affect or edema. However with her family's
persuasion she agreed to do an MRI to rule out any masses.
The MRI results are pending.  Her dizziness is most likely
benign positional vertigo, possible also labyrinthitis.  She
has been treated with Levofloxacin.  Additionally she has
been started on Meclizine 25 milligrams po six hours prn. She
does report upon discharge improvement in her vertigo
symptoms.

3.  RENAL FLUIDS, ELECTROLYTES AND NUTRITION - The patient
was hyponatremic and hypokalemic on admission.  However
repeat sodium was 133 and repeat potassium was 3.6.  She did
receive some fluids and they corrected. She may have been
mildly dehydrated.  She did not have any other further
electrolyte abnormalities during the course of admission.

4. ENDOCRINE - The patient's glucose was checked because she
was started on high dose steroids.  However she usually
remained less than 200 and she did not require any sliding
scale coverage though she was written for it.

5. GASTROINTESTINAL - The patient did complain of abdominal
pain.  It was sharp and epigastric. Her LFTs were negative
and her pancreatic enzymes were negative. She was sent for  H
pylori antibody testing which was still pending. Her
hematocrit was stable so she was not having any active
bleeding. [**Month (only) 116**] need to be followed as an outpatient.  However
this pain has subsided.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient is to be discharged to
rehab for further improvement in her respiratory status.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: She will be discharged on the
following medications:
1.  Prednisone taper 60 milligrams po q day for two days, 50
milligrams po q day for two days, 40 milligra