Admission Date:  [**2195-9-17**]              Discharge Date:   [**2195-10-8**]

Date of Birth:  [**2112-5-16**]             Sex:   M

Service: SURGERY

Allergies:
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions

Attending:[**First Name3 (LF) 4748**]
Chief Complaint:
abdominal aortic aneurysm

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:

[**2195-9-23**]: Open transabdominal repair of infrarenal abdominal
aortic aneurysm with Dacron graft

[**2195-10-2**]: L-thoracentesis of pulmonary effusion


History of Present Illness:
The patient is an 83-year-old gentleman who was followed for an
infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm as well as a suprarenal
abdominal aortic aneurysm. The suprarenal component of his
aneurysm was stable without any change in size over a
significant period of time with monitoring. However his
infrarenal component increased in size to 6.7 cm. It was felt
that the patient was a poor candidate for an extensive
thoracoabdominal surgical repair for type 4 aortic aneurysm.
However due to the fact that his infrarenal component was
enlarging aneurysm, it was felt that he would benefit from
repair. He did have a normal segment of aorta in his visceral
segment and in the area of the renals. It was felt due to the
anatomy of his aneurysm that potentially an infrarenal clamp
would be able to be placed and we would be able to sew below the
renals.  Therefore it was felt that he would most benefit from
an infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm repair with conservative
management of suprarenal aneurysm. He therefore presents today
for open repair of his infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm as
it did not make criteria for endovascular repair.

Past Medical History:
PMH: CAD, Afib, htn, hyperlipidemia, PVD, thoracoabdominal
aneurysm, benign positional vertigo, CKD baseline Cr 1.4

PSH: CABG x 4 '[**85**], L Renal artery stent


Social History:
lives at home with wife; has good family support

Family History:
n/c

Physical Exam:
Afebrile, vital signs stable, no apparent distress, comfortable
Abd: abdominal surgical incision intact and well healed; abdomen
soft, nondistended, obese, normal bowel sounds
Cardio: irregular rhythm, regular rate
Pulm: lungs clear to ascultation bilaterally
Neuro: alert and oriented x3, conversant, moving all extremities
to command

Pertinent Results:
[**2195-10-5**] 04:00AM BLOOD WBC-5.2 RBC-3.44* Hgb-10.5* Hct-31.8*
MCV-93 MCH-30.5 MCHC-33.0 RDW-14.5 Plt Ct-286
[**2195-10-8**] 04:57AM BLOOD PT-12.4 PTT-38.3* INR(PT)-1.1
[**2195-10-8**] 04:57AM BLOOD Glucose-104* UreaN-25* Creat-0.9 Na-137
K-4.7 Cl-105 HCO3-25 AnGap-12
[**2195-10-2**] 12:20AM BLOOD CK-MB-3 cTropnT-0.12*
[**2195-10-2**] 08:31AM BLOOD CK-MB-3 cTropnT-0.18* proBNP-3097*
[**2195-10-3**] 04:00AM BLOOD CK-MB-3 cTropnT-0.23*
[**2195-10-4**] 01:46AM BLOOD CK-MB-3 cTropnT-0.20*
[**2195-10-8**] 04:57AM BLOOD Calcium-8.0* Phos-3.5 Mg-2.1

[**2195-10-2**] 1:27 pm PLEURAL FLUID      PLEURAL FLUID.


   **FINAL REPORT [**2195-10-8**]**

   GRAM STAIN (Final [**2195-10-2**]):
      1+    (<1 per 1000X FIELD):   POLYMORPHONUCLEAR
LEUKOCYTES.
      NO MICROORGANISMS SEEN.
      This is a concentrated smear made by cytospin method,
please refer to
      hematology for a quantitative white blood cell count..

   FLUID CULTURE (Final [**2195-10-5**]):    NO GROWTH.

   ANAEROBIC CULTURE (Final [**2195-10-8**]):    NO GROWTH.

MR HEAD W/O CONTRAST Study Date of [**2195-10-4**] 1:00 AM
FINDINGS:  There is no evidence for acute intracranial
hemorrhage or mass.  There is no acute ischemia. There is
prominence of ventricles and sulci suggesting volume loss for
age.  Intracranial flow voids are maintained.

There is opacification of all the paranasal sinuses with also a
polypoid soft tissue density in the nasal cavity on the right.
Recommend further evaluation with CT of the sinuses when the
patient is clinically stable . There is opacification of the
right frontal sinus in a somewhat expansile fashion, cannot
exclude an early mucocele.  Bilateral mastoid and middle ear
opacification is seen.

CT HEAD W/O CONTRAST Study Date of [**2195-10-2**] 6:12 PM
FINDINGS:  Compared to the prior exam, there has been no major
interval
change.  There is no evidence for acute intracranial hemorrhage,
large mass, mass effect, edema, or hydrocephalus.  The basal
cisterns appear patent. There is preservation of [**Doctor Last Name 352**]-white
matter differentiation.  Prominent ventricles and sulci suggest
age-related involutional changes.  White matter hypodensity is
likely secondary to sequela of chronic small vessel ischemic
disease.

There is persistent partial opacification of the mastoid air
cells with
improved but residual partial opacification of the ethmoid air
cells, and
persistent complete opacification of the right frontal sinus
with an air-fluid level in the left frontal sinus, possibly
related to recent intubation.  Chronic-appearing mucosal
thickening is seen in the maxillary and sphenoid sinuses
bilaterally.There is possible polyp in the right nasal cavity.
No  acute bony abnormality is detected.  Arterial calcifications
are seen.


Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the [**Hospital1 18**] Vascular Surgery Service
for open repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (see operative
note for further details).  The surgery was successful, but
complicated by hypotension and extensive blood loss (13 units).
He was subsequently placed in the Intensive Care Unit, intubated
and sedated, for approximately 13 days.

#Neuro
In the ICU he was initially unresponsive to verbal commands
after propofol and fentanyl had been discontinued 4-days
post-op, however he gradually improved to an  alert and
conversant state.  Concern for global cerebral ischemia
secondary to the intraoperative blood loss was explored with
head CT/MRI/EEG; the studies showed generalized encephalopathy
but no signs of acute ischemia/cerebral bleed. Neurology was
involved with this assessment.  Gradually his mental status
improved but tended to wax and wane during this improvement.

#Cardio
On postop day 15 (day 2 on the floor), the patient became
tachycardic to the 100's and reported chest pain. Cardiac
biomarkers revealed an elevated troponin and normal CK and
CK-MB.  Cardiology was consulted to manage the patient, and
their recommendations were observed.  We initiated beta-blockade
to control heart rate,  continued blood pressure management, and
trended cardiac enzymes.  His chest pain resolved and his
cardiac enzymes ultimately trended downward.  He had no further
issues with chest pain.  All of his home meds were resumed on
discharge and Metoprolol was added to his daily regimen.

#Pulm
The patient was intubated and sedated in the ICU for
approximately 10days before being extubated in the unit.  He had
no pulmonary issues and had adequate O2 saturation but after
being transferred to the floor was found to have a large left
sided pleural effusion.  It was drained by Interventional
Pulmonology for approximately 1L of serosangenous fluid, which
was sterile on microbiological analysis.

#GI
The patient was placed on TPN for nutritional repletion while in
the ICU and on the floor.  Consideration was given for a PEG,
but the patient subsequently passed a speech and swallow
assessment and his diet was advanced to ground solids and thin
liquids.  The patient was able to tolerate PO intake but we
continued his TPN at half the initial rate because he was still
not taking in adequate nutrition (per caloric intake
monitoring).  The rate of his TPN may need to be adjusted at the
Rehab in accordance with his PO intake.  His speech and swallow
status will also need to be reevaluated to advance his diet.  He
will

#GU
The patient received IV Lasix for diuresis until his volume
status was appropriate.  He was clinically euvolumic on
discharge.  Foley was in place on discharge, but should be
removed on day 1 at the Rehab center.

#Heme
The patient was on Coumadin prior to hospitalization; this was
discontinued postoperativly.  He was resumed on his home dose of
Coumadin on the day of discharge, with no bridging therapy.  He
was continued on subcutaneous Heparin on discharge to the rehab.
 The patient was on cilostazol prior t