Admission Date:  [**2141-8-19**]     Discharge Date:  [**2141-8-31**]

Date of Birth:   [**2081-12-17**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 59 year-old woman with
no history of coronary artery disease with a recent
echocardiogram done at an outside hospital with ejection
fraction of 50% and moderate aortic stenosis and mitral
regurgitation who presented on [**7-19**] with fever and
drainage from a breast implant that was placed two weeks ago
after a mastectomy for breast cancer.  The patient was
transferred to the floor and subsequently was noted to have
an increase in the creatinine from 1.0 to 1.8, which the
renal team confirmed was secondary to volume depletion and
prerenal azotemia.  Therefore the patient was volume
resuscitated with approximately 9 liters of fluid over the
next two to three days with improvement of her creatinine to
1.4.

On the [**6-22**] the patient was noted to be in
respiratory distress on physical examination and chest x-ray
revealed pulmonary edema.  The patient was intubated and
transferred to the Coronary Care Unit.  The patient was
diuresed approximately 3 liters and an attempt was made to
try and wean her from the ventilator, which was unsuccessful.
At this time she was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit
Service.  In review of her history, which was obtained from
her cardiologist Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 10220**] from [**Hospital6 1597**], in 10/99
the patient was admitted at [**Hospital3 **] for worsening
pulmonary edema.  She was diuresed and a cardiac
catheterization was done, which revealed clean coronary
arteries.  Echocardiogram at that time showed a normal
ejection fraction and she was discharged without a diagnosis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Breast CA status post left
mastectomy with graft implant [**2141-6-14**].  Nodes negative.
 2.  Hodgkin's disease in the [**2099**] status post radiation
therapy, chemotherapy and splenectomy.  3.  Complete heart
block thought secondary to radiation therapy status post
pacer placed in [**2139-9-21**].  4.  Hypertension.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco, alcohol or drugs.

OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS:  Atenolol 25 b.i.d., Zestril 5
b.i.d., Lasix 20 q.d., Ativan prn, Paxil 20 q.d., aspirin,
Tamoxifen 10 q.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On propofol drip, ventilated on assist
control ventilation.  No recent arterial blood gas.  CVP 829.
Temperature max 99.9, current temperature 99.  Pulse 78.
Blood pressure 120/51.  O2 sats 96% on assist control
ventilation.  In general, intubated and sedated.  HEENT
pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  Neck
bilateral carotid bruits, unable to assess right JVD due to
IJ catheter.  Right IJ difficult to visualize secondary to
adipost tissue.  Heart, cardiovascular regular rate with
crescendo, decrescendo mid late peaking systolic murmur.
There is also audible holosystolic murmur.  Lungs bilateral
rales up to 50%.  Abdomen soft with mildly decreased bowel
sounds.  No palpable masses.  No hepatosplenomegaly, but
difficult to ascertain given large panus.  Extremities 1+
edema bilaterally lower extremities.  No bruits bilaterally
in femorals.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 12.2, hematocrit 29.3,
platelets 471, sodium 131, potassium 5.7, chloride 99, bicarb
19, BUN 32, creatinine 1.5, glucose 197.  Echocardiogram
preliminary results from [**2141-8-23**], EF of 20% with aneurysmal
thinned AK septum with an arteriole apex was relatively
intact lateral inferior wall movement.  The patient had 3+
MR, 3+ MI and mild AS.  Echocardiogram from outside hospital
in [**2141-5-21**] showed an EF of 50% with no wall motion
abnormalities except distal septal hypokinesis, moderate MR,
moderate AI and AS.  Electrocardiogram serially revealed a
rate of 70 to 90 with sensed to V paced rhythm.  Chest x-ray
frank pulmonary edema with congestive heart failure, IJ
catheter and SVC endotracheal tube in place.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiac:  In light of flash pulmonary
edema the patient was aggressively diuresed with Lasix to
keep her at a negative fluid balance.  A Swan was placed to
assess her volume status and also to make the distinction
between cardiogenic versus noncardiogenic pulmonary edema.
Additionally she was started on a Nipride drip for after load
reduction.  Over the course of her stay she improved
clinically and was successfully extubated.  Her chest x-ray
showed serial improvement in her pulmonary edema.  Her O2
requirements decreased and her O2 sats were greater then 90%
on room air.  In terms of etiology of her pulmonary edema, it
seems that although her past echocardiogram showed a mildly
depressed ejection fraction it did show some mild hypokinesis
in the septum.  This could have been an early sign that she
had an obstructing plaque in her left anterior descending
coronary artery.

On [**6-14**] the patient went for mastectomy and was under
general anesthesia for over three hours.  It is possible that
the patient suffered a massive myocardial infarction to her
septum and anterior wall at that time.  Given the thinned and
aneurysmal septum, this event took place some time ago and is
not recent.  Then upon readmittance to the hospital with a
severely depressed EF, 3+ MR, 3+ MI and aggressive fluid
resuscitation, the patient went into flash pulmonary edema.
The patient continues to be hypertensive.  She is currently
on Dyazide, Zestril, atenolol and Procardia.  She will need
further assessment of her cardiac status on an outpatient
basis given septal hypokinesis and decreased EF.

2.  Renal:  Over the course of her stay in the Intensive Care
Unit her creatinine trended down.

3.  Pulmonary:  With diuresis and after load reduction the
patient was successfully extubated.  Her lungs had some mild
wheezing post extubation with a peak flow of 150.  She will
benefit from pulmonary function tests on an outpatient basis
to assess for asthma or other intrinsic lung diseases.

4.  Anemia:  The patient was transfused 2 units of blood on
initial transfer to the Coronary Care Unit Service.  Her
hematocrit remained stable throughout her stay.

5. Infectious disease:  She had a large infected wound, which
was drained and the prosthesis was removed by plastic
surgery.  She was started on Oxacillin, however, developed a
rash on her torso on day seven post treatment with Oxacillin.
She was switched to Vancomycin 1 gram q 12 for total of three
weeks.  Her wound sites on the left breast are healing well.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Atenolol 75 mg q day, Procardia XL 90
mg q day, Dioxide one tablet b.i.d., Albuterol MDI two puffs
q 4 to 6 hours prn, Vancomycin 1 gram q 12, aspirin 325 mg po
q.d., heparin subQ 5000 units b.i.d., Protonix 40 mg po q
day, Serax 15 mg po q.h.s. prn, Zestril 20 mg po q.d., Paxil
20 mg po q.d., Tamoxifen 10 mg po q.d., Benadryl 25 mg po q 6
hours prn for itching.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Cardiogenic pulmonary edema.
2.  Status post myocardial infarction.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Breast CA.
5.  Complete heart block status post pacer placement.
6.  Remote history of Hodgkin's disease.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.  Discharged to rehab.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4786**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 5753**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2141-10-14**]  21:14
T:  [**2141-10-18**]  06:45
JOB#:  [**Job Number 26630**]
