Admission Date:  [**2125-3-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2125-4-13**]


Service:  GENERAL SURGERY

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an
unfortunate 88-year-old gentleman with a past medical history
significant for cardiomyopathy and severe systolic congestive
heart failure with an ejection fraction of 20%, hypertension,
and a history of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter
status post ablation who presented to the Medical Service on
[**2125-3-28**] with progressive dyspnea and lower extremity
edema three weeks after having a right knee operation at
[**Hospital3 1196**] upon being discharged to an acute
rehabilitation facility.  He was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for several days with respiratory failure
and congestive heart failure.  The patient had troponin leak
during this period.  He was recovering, actively diuresing
well when his clinical picture worsened over the course of
[**1-4**] hours.  The patient's white blood cell count rose from
the normal level to about 20,000 prior to his operation.

He was noted to have an abdominal examination that
progressively worsened and became more distended and tender
to palpation.  He became fluid requiring, pressor requiring,
and an emergent surgical consult was obtained.  The patient
was evaluated by the General Surgical Service and felt to
have an acute abdomen.  At this point, he was quite
.....................  His grave prognosis was discussed in
detail with the wife and multiple family members and the
likelihood of having some ischemic or dead bowel within his
abdominal cavity was very high and the family elected to
proceed with an exploratory laparotomy for definitive
diagnosis and therapy.

Once again, the poor prognosis was emphasized to the family
but as there were not many options for this gentleman at that
time other than making him CMO and continued medical therapy,
the decision unanimously was made by the family in terms of
having him undergo this exploratory laparotomy.

After adequate consents were signed and obtained, the patient
was taken to the Operating Room on [**2125-4-8**] by Dr.
[**First Name (STitle) 2819**].  Upon performing an exploratory laparotomy, necrotic
colon extending from the cecum all the way to the proximal
descending colon was encountered.  He underwent a subtotal
colectomy with a Hartmann's procedure as well and an
end-ileostomy and a gastrostomy tube placement.  The patient
was extremely labile during the procedure requiring multiple
pressors in order to keep his systolic blood pressure.
Immediately postoperatively, he was transferred to the
Intensive Care Unit in fair to critical condition.

Since postoperative day number one, the patient failed to
wean off the pressors that he was receiving in order to keep
his systolic blood pressure and his renal function
progressively deteriorated but he continued to make urine.
All this time he was unable to be weaned off the ventilator
and progressively deteriorated requiring more and more
ventilatory support, eventually developing a pneumonia.
During all this time he was kept on broad spectrum
antibiotics including vancomycin, levofloxacin, and Flagyl
and his medical management was maximized while he was in the
Surgical Intensive Care Unit with collaboration of Cardiology
as well as the Renal and ID Team.

Following Cardiology recommendations and in an effort to
improve his hemodynamics, on postoperative day number two,
the patient was started on milrinone in an effort to increase
his cardiac performance.  Unfortunately, the patient
developed a sustained V tach that resolved after a 43 beat
run, ultimately requiring to be placed on an Amiodarone drip.

A family meeting was carried out with the family and once
again the really poor prognosis as well as the critical
condition was explained in detail to the family members but
at that time decided to make the patient a DNR but continue
full support medically.

By [**2125-4-13**], postoperative day number five, it was clear
the this gentleman was progressively worsening and
deteriorating.  He continued to require pressors in order to
keep a minimal systolic blood pressure and his renal function
was worsening by the day.

On the morning of this same postoperative day number five, he
dropped his pressure to the 80s requiring the addition of a
new pressor to keep him up around 50.  At that time, the
family was informed and they requested to have a new family
meeting to further discuss management on this patient.  The
family meeting was held in the presence of the residents of
the surgical team, the attending, as well as the ICU staff
and upon explaining once again the seriousness and the
critical condition that he was at that time, the family
decided to make him comfort measures only and not proceed
with any further medical therapy.  Pressor support was
withdrawn and he was kept on a Fentanyl drip, making sure
that he was comfortable.  Shortly after these measures were
undertaken, the patient underwent a cardiorespiratory arrest.
He was not resuscitated.  He was pronounced dead at 4:00 p.m.
on [**2125-4-13**].  The family was present at the time and
they declined a postmortem examination.  Dr. [**First Name (STitle) 2819**] as well as
the medicine attending and PCPs were notified of this death.




                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 19318**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 26544**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2125-4-13**]  07:40
T:  [**2125-4-13**]  22:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 92970**]
