Admission Date:  [**2195-12-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2196-1-8**]


Service:  Thoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 83 year old female
who was first noted to have a right upper lung mass on chest
x-ray in [**2194-12-17**] as she was preoped for a coronary
artery bypass graft.  A computerized tomography scan was done
then and then repeated in [**Month (only) 205**] showing slight increase in
this finding.  A PET scan was then done and was positive.
She had been complaining of shortness of breath on mild
exertion and was unable to climb up a flight of stairs,
denied any weight loss or hemoptysis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, status post
coronary artery bypass graft in [**2195-1-17**], abdominal
aortic aneurysm 5 cm, hypertension, paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation, hyperlipidemia, carotid bruit.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery bypass graft.

MEDICATIONS:
Aspirin 325
Digoxin .125
Paroxetine 40 q.d.
Cozaar 50 q.d.
Alprazolam .25 t.i.d.
Lipitor 20 q.d.
[**Doctor First Name **] 60 b.i.d. prn
Zantac 150 b.i.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She had smoked, has about 55 pack years and
stopped in [**2195-1-17**] and does not drink alcohol.  She
lives alone but has three children that live close by.

FAMILY HISTORY:  She had two sisters who probably had lung
cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 99.5,
heart rate 80, blood pressure 122/80, saturations 93% on room
air, weight 151 pounds.  Elderly woman in no apparent
distress.  Lungs, clear to auscultation.  Kyphosis.  Heart,
regular rate and rhythm.  Abdomen, soft, nontender, no mass,
no edema.

ASSESSMENT:  When first examined in the office she was taken
for a short walk but was unable to climb a flight of stairs
and developed shortness of breath with no wheezing.  Because
of her severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, her
comorbidities and age, it seemed that she would not be able
to tolerate an extensive procedure.  It was therefore decided
to proceed with video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery and a
wedge resection of this right upper lobe mass.  It was also
noted that she had a left lower lobe nodule which seemed
benign on the computerized tomography scan and it was planned
to remove that as well.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On [**2195-12-29**], she was taken to the
Operating Room.  She underwent a right video-assisted
thoracoscopic surgery and wedge resection of her right upper
lobe mass and lower lobe nodule.  She tolerated the procedure
with no difficulty, was extubated at the end of the case and
was transferred to the postoperative recovery area and then
to the floor.  She was doing well on postoperative day #1
until in the afternoon and it was noted that her blood
pressure were starting to decline.  Although this was teated,
she eventually had blood pressure as high as 200 systolic and
at the same time because tachycardiac and developed
respiratory failure.  She was intubated over night and then
able to extubate with no difficulty the next morning.  It was
unclear at that point what was the underlying etiology for
this acute respiratory failure.  A similar episode occurred
the next day requiring short-term intubation and at that
point it became clear that the blood pressures were clearly
associated with the occurrence of the respiratory failure and
at this point chest x-rays also showed more clearly that she
had developed congestive heart failure.  It was therefore
thought that she was developing pulmonary edema secondary to
hypertension and that she required tight blood pressure
control.  This was initially done with a drip of
Nitroglycerin and then she was transitioned to Captopril p.o.
which at her current dose is controlling her blood pressures
well.  She has since had no similar episodes.

To briefly summarize her postoperative course:   Neurological
- Her pain was initially controlled with narcotics.  These
were discontinued during her hospitalization and she
developed a slight confusion.  She did not require any
further pain medications and was comfortable with Tylenol
only and prior to discharge her mental status was at
baseline.  She was alert and oriented.

Cardiovascular - Events as noted above.  Her blood pressure
is well controlled with Captopril p.o. and should be
monitored closely.  Because of the fact that she developed
congestive heart failure she was diuresed here aggressively,
initially with a Lasix drip and Lasix intravenously and Lasix
p.o.  Since she was not at home on diuretics and it seemed
that prior to discharge that her volume status is at
baseline, Lasix was discontinued on transfer to
rehabilitation but this should be again re-evaluated
clinically by primary care physician and the cardiologist on
follow up.  She has not developed any significant arrhythmias
other than the tachy-arrhythmia around these acute events of
respiratory failure and hypertension.

Gastrointestinal - Her diet was gradually advanced and she
has been tolerating a regular diet prior to discharge.  She
is on Protonix for gastrointestinal prophylaxis.  She had
been taking Zantac at home.

Genitourinary - Her urine output is always maintained.  At
some point during her stay here her creatinine had slightly
bumped up to 2 secondary to aggressive diuresis.  Once we
backed off on the diuresis, her creatinine bumped back down
and prior to discharge her creatinine is 1.5 and should be
followed.

Heme - She remains stable and does not require blood
products.

Infectious disease - After her first episode which was of
unclear etiology and occurred while the patient was sitting
up and eating, and because of the thought that maybe
aspiration was associated with an acute event of respiratory
failure, we started her on Levofloxacin.  There was no
further evidence that this was the case, we completed a
course of one week's treatment around her acute events of
respiratory failure, intubation, reintubation and extubation.
She is now off antibiotics.  At no time was she febrile and
her white count was normal.

Musculoskeletal - The patient has been ambulating with the
assistance of physical therapy.  She is not a very active
woman at baseline and will require further physical therapy
and it was felt that she will benefit from a short stay in
the rehabilitation facility.  She is discharged to
rehabilitation with the following recommendations.

DISCHARGE RECOMMENDATIONS:
1.  Continue medications as outlined in the discharge sheet.
2.  Follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 175**] in one week by appointment.
3.  Follow up with primary care physician and cardiologist,
by appointment.



                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 177**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 178**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 179**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 28532**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2196-1-8**]  08:52
T:  [**2196-1-8**]  09:20
JOB#:  [**Job Number 47359**]
