Admission Date: [**2147-10-23**]        Discharge Date: [**2147-11-2**]

Date of Birth:  [**2090-7-23**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 57-year-old male who
reported a couple of months history of increased shortness of
breath and fatigue.  Over the last two weeks, his shortness
of breath worsened with a sore throat, and a cold, and a
question of pneumonia.  He is admitted to an outside hospital
a week ago for treatment of suspected pneumonia.  An
echocardiogram showed a low ejection fraction of 20 percent.
He was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
today for cardiac catheterization, which showed severe three
vessel disease and is now referred for CABG.  The patient
denied any syncope, nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, or edema,
and reports dyspnea on exertion, shortness of breath, and one
episode of chest tightness last week.

Cardiac catheterization revealed an 80 percent RCA lesion, a
40 percent RPDA lesion, left main 99 percent obstruction, LAD
80 percent lesion, circumflex 90 percent lesion, and OM-1 70
percent lesion.  The echocardiogram showed a global
hypokinesis and a severely depressed left ventricular
ejection fraction and 1 plus mitral regurgitation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Gout.

Hypercholesterolemia.

Chronic renal insufficiency.

Hospitalization for CHF.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  He had no past surgical history.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once daily.
2. Tricor unknown dose.
3. At the time the patient was seen in the CCU, he has also
   been started on a Heparin drip at 1000 units per hour.
   Was receiving aspirin 81 mg by mouth once daily,
   lisinopril 5 mg by mouth once daily, metoprolol 25 mg by
   mouth twice daily.


PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On exam, he is 5'6" tall weighing 159
pounds in sinus rhythm at 71 with a blood pressure of 111/80,
respiratory rate 17, and saturating 95 percent on 4 liters in
the CCU.  He lives in [**Location 3320**] with his wife.  [**Name (NI) 1403**] full-
time as a mechanic.  He had no tobacco history and no use of
alcohol.  He had an intra-aortic balloon pump placed
preoperatively in the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory at
the time of catheterization.

On exam, he was flat in bed in no apparent distress.  He is
alert and oriented times three and appropriate with no
carotid bruits.  His chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  His heart was regular rate and rhythm with a
S1, S2.  Heart tones on one-to-one balloon difficult to
assess any heart murmur secondary to balloon.  His abdomen
was soft, nontender, round, and nondistended with positive
bowel sounds.  Extremities were warm and well perfused
without any edema, varicosities.  His right groin had a
balloon in place in his right femoral artery.  Bilaterally he
had 2 plus radial pulses, 1 plus DP and PT pulses on the
right and 2 plus DP and PT pulses on the left.

PREOPERATIVE LABS:  White count 3.9, hematocrit 34.8,
platelet count 212,000.  Sodium 138, potassium 3.7, chloride
106, bicarb 23, BUN 29, creatinine 1.4 with a blood sugar of
195.  PT 13.3, PTT 38.3, INR 1.1.  ALT 93, AST 72, alkaline
phosphatase 58, total bilirubin 0.4, albumin 3.0.

Preoperative chest x-ray showed findings consistent with CHF
and bilateral pleural effusions.  Please refer to the final
chest x-ray report.

Preoperative EKG showed sinus rhythm at 70 with a left
anterior fascicular block and a possible anteroseptal infarct
and nonspecific ST-T wave changes.  Please refer to the EKG
dated [**2147-10-24**].

Prior to surgery white count rose slightly to 8.0 with a
hematocrit of 38.0 and a platelet count of 241,000.  A PTT
rose also to 128.8 on Heparin with appropriate adjustments
made.  Urinalysis was negative.  Creatinine remained stable
on the evening prior to surgery at 1.4.

Patient was also switched by CCU staff from lisinopril to
captopril preoperatively and on [**2147-10-24**], the patient
underwent coronary artery bypass grafting times four with
intra-aortic balloon pump by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] with a LIMA to the
LAD, a vein graft to OM-1, vein graft to OM-2, and vein graft
to the RCA.  The patient was transferred to the
Cardiothoracic ICU in stable condition on a milrinone drip at
0.2 mcg/kg/minute, Epinephrine drip at 0.05 mcg/kg/minute, a
Neo-Synephrine drip at 1 mcg/kg/minute, and a propofol drip
that was titrated.

On postoperative day one, the patient received 1 unit of
packed red blood cells and 1 unit of FFP to correct
coagulopathy.  The patient remained on Epinephrine drip at
0.03, insulin at 6 units an hour, Neo-Synephrine at 3.2, and
propofol at 30.  He was in sinus rhythm at 104 with a blood
pressure of 99/50 and a T max of 102.2 saturating 98 percent
still on the ventilator with a cardiac index of 2.63 with an
intra-aortic balloon pump in place, remained intubated.  His
lungs were clear bilaterally, but with decreased breath
sounds at the bases.  Abdomen is soft.  He had [**1-6**] plus
peripheral edema and a plan for the day was to followup his
platelet count, which did not come back at the time his other
laboratory results.

His creatinine dropped slightly to 1.3 with a plan to try and
wean his balloon, pull it out, and start to wean him from the
ventilator.  He was also seen by the Cardiology staff, Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] from the Heart Failure team.

On postoperative day two, patient received another unit of
packed red blood cells.  Hematocrit rose to 26.2.  Neo-
Synephrine was changed over to Levophed drip at 0.15
mcg/kg/minute.  Patient remained on milrinone drip at 0.25
mcg/kg/minute.  Creatinine remained stable at 1.3.  Patient
had coarse breath sounds bilaterally, but was neurologically
awake and moving all four extremities, saturating 97 percent
on 3 liters, extubated.  His hematocrit also remained stable.
He was also seen by the Case Management team.

On postoperative day three, intra-aortic balloon pump had
been discontinued.  Platelet count rose slightly from 60 to
69,000.  Patient continued the Lasix diuresis, had a cardiac
index of 2.2, and a mixed venous of 72 percent.  He still had
decreased breath sounds at the bases, but his exam is
otherwise unremarkable with 1 plus peripheral edema and
incisions were clean, dry, and intact.  He continued with
Lasix diuresis.  His milrinone was cut in half to 0.125.
Chest tubes were discontinued.  The patient was encouraged to
get out of bed and work with Physical Therapy and incentive
spirometry.

Patient remained in the ICU on postoperative day four.
Patient remained hemodynamically stable, blood pressure of
103/46.  Patient's creatinine dropped slightly to 1.1.  His
exam is otherwise unremarkable.  Patient was encouraged to
have increased pulmonary toilet.  He was saturating 98
percent on 2 liters.  He remained on milrinone at 0.01.  His
chest tubes had some bibasilar crackles, but his examination
was otherwise unremarkable.  He remained in  the
cardiothoracic ICU.

On postoperative day five, he received 1 unit of packed red
blood cells transfusion for a hematocrit, which then rose to
32.8.  He was negative 1.5 liters.  He continued with a small
anterior crackles at his bases.  He had 2 plus peripheral
edema.  His milrinone was at 0.625.  He continued on Lasix
diuresis.  Was started on carvedilol 3.125 mg twice a day.
His creatinine continued to drop to 1.0.  He was
neurologically alert and oriented.  He still had some coarse
breath sounds bilaterally.  His milrinone was weaned off on
postoperative day six, his Foley was discontinued.  He
continued to be followed by Case Management and also the
Heart Failure team.  His Swan was discontinued on
postoperative day seven.  He continued to have an
unremarkable exam with incisions looking good other than
decreased breath sounds at its bases.

He continued with diuresis saturating 95 percent on 2 liters
nasal cannula and a stable creatinine at 1.0, and he was
transferred to the floor.  He was restarted on a statin and
his ACE inhibitor was advanced also.  A minor complication
was reported on day of transfer.  The patient had a small
ulceration at the meatus of his urethra secondary to Fo