Admission Date:  [**2161-8-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2161-9-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2083-5-10**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 78-year-old male with
a past medical history of gastroesophageal reflux disease,
atrial fibrillation, congestive heart failure, who was in his
usual state of health when he developed nausea and vomiting
x5 with bright red blood.  He went to [**Hospital6 33**],
had nasogastric tube placed with bright red blood and melena,
and developed rapid atrial fibrillation.  He was started on a
diltiazem drip and Lopressor IV, receiving minimal response.
He had an EGD with varices noted, but no active bleeding.  Is
also noted to have a portal gastropathy.  His hematocrit
climbed down to 23.  A repeat EGD showed active variceal
bleeding.  The patient had seven bands placed.  The patient
was also placed on Neo-Synephrine and Sandostatin.  He had
hypotension as low as systolic blood pressure of 60 and again
started having bright red blood per rectum.

On the date of admission, his hematocrit was 30 and
subsequently fell to 20 with bright red blood per rectum.
Patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for evaluation and possible transcutaneous
intraperitoneal shunt.  On arrival, the patient was without
complaint.  He denied lightheadedness, chest pain,
palpitations, shortness of breath, abdominal pain, nausea, or
vomiting.

At [**Hospital6 33**], he received 13.5 units of packed red
blood cells.  During his last unit, his temperature increased
to 101.  The unit was stopped and sent for transfusion
reaction work up.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Atrial fibrillation, not on Coumadin.
2. Congestive heart failure for which he had been
hospitalized years ago.
3. Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
4. Question of scarring in the liver with no followup.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin.
2. Ranitidine.
3. Atenolol.

ALLERGIES:  Questionable allergy to digoxin.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:
1. Neo-Synephrine.
2. Octreotide.
3. Diltiazem drip.
4. Protonix.
5. Reglan.
6. Lopressor prn.
7. Thiamine.
8. Folate.
9. Multivitamin.
10. Vitamin K.
11. E-Mycin x1.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is married with four children.  Denied
drugs, questionable alcohol abuse in the past.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On examination, he had a temperature
of 98.9, heart rate 145, blood pressure 115/66, and weight of
110 kg, and respiratory rate 20.  In general, he was alert
and oriented times three.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round,
and reactive to light.  Mucous membranes were very dry.  He
has edematous icteric sclerae.  Cardiovascular:  He was
tachycardic, irregularly, irregular.  Lungs had bibasilar
crackles.  Abdomen had decreased bowel sounds, it was
distended, but soft without evidence of ascites.  Extremities
were warm to touch bilaterally.  There was no evidence of
chronic venous stasis changes.

LABORATORIES ON TRANSFER:  White count 12.5, hematocrit 29.5,
platelets 52.  Differential:  79 neutrophils, 0 bands, 13
lymphocytes, and 8 monocytes.  INR of 2.5, PT 19.4, PTT 42.6,
albumin of 2.0.  Fibrinogen 87.4, D dimer less than 500.
Chem-7:  Sodium 149, potassium 4.2, chloride 122, bicarb 14,
BUN 38, creatinine 1.6, glucose 151.  ALT was 170, AST 391,
alkaline phosphatase 48, LDH 677.  CK of 498.  Amylase of 51,
total bilirubin of 9.3.  Lipase 96.  Troponin 0.01 with MB
index of 7.  Haptoglobin, cortisol, and hepatitis studies
were pending.  Arterial blood gas was 7.37, 29, 134 on 4
liters nasal cannula, lactate of 7.4.  Calcium of 0.85.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  Showed atrial fibrillation with a rate of
[**Street Address(2) 52288**] depressions of 1.5 to 1 mm in leads V2 through
V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE WAS SIGNIFICANT FOR THE FOLLOWING ISSUES:  An
OG tube was placed and lavage showed fresh blood.  It was
decided that the patient be electively intubated for airway
protection and [**Last Name (un) **] tube was placed in the esophagus in
order to correct hemostasis of esophageal varices.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
GI:  Patient continued to have bright red blood.  Required
multiple transfusions of packed red blood cells, platelets,
and fresh-frozen plasma.  A repeat EGD with banding of
several more esophageal varices which were oozing.  Patient
was started on octreotide.  Continued on the Sandostatin
drip. Three attempts at a TIPS procedure were done.  The
second complicated by hepatic artery puncture, the third TIPS
procedure was successful with decreasing patient's portal
pressure of 63 to 22.  The patient had no more episodes of
active bleeding from his varices throughout the duration of
his hospitalization.

The patient had multiple paracenteses with drainage of 2.4
liters of yellow-red fluid on [**8-27**].6 liters of
serosanguinous fluid on the 11th, and 1.7 liters on the 12th.
Two liters on the 14th at the time of the third TIPS
procedure.  He was started on lactulose.  An OG tube was
placed and the patient was placed on SBP prophylaxis.

Following the third TIPS procedure, his liver function tests
were monitored and continued to climb including a total
bilirubin, which increased on a daily basis until the time of
the patient's death on [**9-11**].

Cardiac:  On arrival, the patient was in atrial fibrillation
with a rapid ventricular response, and was noted to be
hypotensive.  He received multiple blood transfusions and
fluid boluses.  Pulmonary catheter was placed on the [**8-28**].  Patient was started on Natrecor on the 11th, and noted
to have a decreased blood pressure, which responded to
boluses and decreasing sedation medications.  He was started
on dobutamine, Lasix, and digoxin for rate control and for
inotropic effect.  He was also started on labetalol drip for
rate control and switched to metoprolol and finally,
diltiazem with adequate rate control.  He continued in atrial
fibrillation for the duration of his hospitalization.

Congestive heart failure:  Patient received a lot of fluid
and intravascular volume upon arrival.  He continued to be
pressor dependent for the next few days and received large
volumes of fluid.  The following week attempts were made to
diurese him aggressively with Natrecor, but his blood
pressure did not tolerate this.  He did, however, respond to
Lasix.  Ultimately started on an IV Lasix drip with a
diuresis of [**2-19**] liters per day.

The following week the Lasix drip was discontinued when his
creatinine increased.  Patient was also started on digoxin
for the inotropic effect, dobutamine to try and help with the
diuresis.

Infectious disease:  Urinalysis shortly after admission
showed the patient had a urinary tract infection and a
culture positive for proteus.  The patient was treated with
ceftriaxone.  Multiple cultures of the blood, sputum, and
peritoneal fluid were negative for organisms and there were
no malignant cells in the peritoneal fluid.

Two to three days before his death the patient was noted to
have a sputum culture positive for Staphylococcus aureus and
ultimately bacteremia with methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus, which continued to persist despite
Vancomycin treatment until the patient's death on [**9-11**].

Pulmonary:  Patient was electively intubated during
hospitalization for airway protection.  Initially, ventilated
and oxygenated well, and was awaiting attempts aggressive
diuresis before weaning.  While the patient developed
Staphylococcus aureus in his sputum, it appeared unlikely
that he would be extubated within the following few days.  He
remained intubated throughout the course of his
hospitalization until the 25th when after a family meeting, a
decision was made to extubate the patient and continue with
comfort measures only.

Fluids, electrolytes, and nutrition:  Patient was initially
started on TPN for nutrition.  Once an OG tube was placed,
was switched to tube feeds, which he tolerated well.  He was
also given thiamine, folate, multivitamin.  Electrolytes
repleted as necessary throughout the course of the
hospitalization.

Renal:  Upon admission, the patient noted to have acute renal
failure due to prerenal azotemia, which improved with
correction of his intravascular volume depletion.  His
creatinine norma