Admission Date:  [**2130-12-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2131-1-11**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  M

Service:  Thoracic Surgery

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
 1.  Status post mediastinal debridement with omental flap to
open sternal wound and primary closure for chronic sternal
infection.
 2.  Status post percutaneous tracheostomy.
 3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
 4.  Coronary artery disease; status post coronary artery
bypass graft times three.
 5.  Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
 6.  Atrial fibrillation.
 7.  Congestive heart failure.
 8.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post right carotid
endarterectomy.
 9.  Hypothyroidism.
10.  History of lower extremity bypass surgery.
11.  History of stomach ulceration resulting in a
gastrointestinal bleed.

PROCEDURES PERFORMED:  (Procedures performed during this
admission included)
1.  Sternal debridement and omental flap as described above.
The omental flap was done by the Plastic Surgery Service (Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 13797**]).
2.  Percutaneous tracheostomy.
3.  Bronchoscopy; therapeutic times two.

REASON FOR ADMISSION/HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The
patient is a 75-year-old gentleman with non-insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, and coronary artery disease
(status post coronary artery bypass graft times three with a
left internal mammary artery at [**Hospital6 **] in [**2128-8-1**]).  This was complicated by a postoperative sternal
infection requiring debridement and pectoralis muscle
advancements.

He was discharged home following this surgery and did well
until [**2129-5-2**] when he fell at home and had an opening
of the sternal wound.

He was taken back to the operating room in [**2129-11-1**]
where an incision and drainage and removal of the sternal
wires was performed along with closure of the wound.  This
ultimately reopened and required another debridement in
[**2130-2-1**].

The patient now presents with two persistent sinus drainage
tracks in the lower sternum.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Vitamin C 500 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Imdur 30 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Synthroid 0.5 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Singular 10 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Cardizem-CR 120 mg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Calcium 500 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Multivitamin one tablet by mouth every day.
 8.  Plavix 75 mg by mouth once per day.
 9.  Lisinopril 2.5 mg by mouth once per day.
10.  Lasix 80 mg by mouth once per day.
11.  Ranitidine 150 mg by mouth once per day.
12.  Iron 325 mg by mouth once per day.
13.  Lipitor 40 mg by mouth once per day.
14.  Zaroxolyn 2.5 mg by mouth once per day.
15.  Insulin sliding-scale.
16.  He was also on 2 liters to 3 liters of supplemental
oxygen at home.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and lives in [**Location 86**]
with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] previously worked as a salesman, but he is
now retired.  He has three children.  He smoked two packs per
day for 20 years but quit smoking 15 years prior.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's mother died at a young age
from asthma.  His siblings are healthy.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  General physical
examination revealed the patient is an obese elderly
gentleman who presented in a wheelchair since it was
difficult for him to walk long distance required to get into
the clinic.  The patient was in no apparent distress on 4
liters of oxygen.  The patient's weight was 200.5 pounds and
his height was 65 inches.  The patient's blood pressure was
90/58, his heart rate was 81 and irregular, his oxygen
saturation was 92% on 4 liters, and his temperature was 97.5
degrees Fahrenheit.  The sclerae were anicteric.  The
cervical examination revealed no adenopathy.  The lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally without wheezes.
Cardiovascular examination revealed irregular heart sounds.
There were no murmurs.  Thoracic examination revealed no
lesions on the back or flanks.  His midline sternum was
unstable with nonunion.  There did appear to be a sternal
bone present on examination.  He had a midline vertical
incision extending from the suprasternal notch down to below
the xiphoid.  There was a T portion to the lower wound from
reconstructive surgery.  From those two areas at the lower
sternum, he had two sinus tracks draining purulent material.
The upper three quarters of his sternum appeared to be free
of sinus tracks, infections, or masses.  The abdominal
examination revealed the abdomen was obese with no masses.
He had an umbilical hernia which was reducible.  Vascular
examination revealed 2+ carotid pulses without bruits.
Extremity examination revealed no clubbing or edema.  Skin
examination revealed no cyanosis, but he clearly had two
fistula tracks on his chest.  Neurologic examination was
nonfocal.  The patient had an intact and appropriate mental
status.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient is a 75-year-old gentleman with multiple risk factors
for sternal breakdown, status post median sternotomy.  The
patient had a chronic sternal infection that required radical
debridement and omental flap for reconstruction.

The patient was brought into the hospital on [**2130-12-20**] and was taken to the operating room for a combined
procedure between Thoracic Surgery and Plastic Surgery and
underwent opening of his sternal wound and debridement of
some of the remaining sternal bone with removal of all
infectious tissue.  Thereafter, Plastic Surgery performed a
omental flap closure of the defect.

The patient tolerated the procedure well after a fairly long
and complicated procedure and was transferred to the
Cardiothoracic Surgery Recovery Unit postoperatively.  He was
extubated that evening; however, he required reintubation the
during the night.

Prior discussions with the patient and his family confirmed
the conclusion that if the patient did not tolerate a rapid
extubation status post surgery that we would proceed to early
tracheostomy as the patient had been on a ventilator for
prolonged periods of time after previous surgeries.  It was
felt that should the patient not tolerate early extubation he
would likely also require a prolonged intubation, the
decision was made to proceed to early tracheostomy to
facilitate ventilator weaning and pulmonary toilet.

On postoperative day one, the patient underwent percutaneous
tracheostomy and tolerated this well.

1.  NEUROLOGIC ISSUES:  Neurologically, the patient remained
intact.  He had no neurologic events during this prolonged
hospitalization.  He pain was controlled with a combination
of empiric and intravenous pain medications.  On examination
today the patient was alert, was following commands, and was
appropriate.

2.  RESPIRATORY ISSUES:  As stated, the patient had to have a
tracheostomy.  Despite this, the patient was able to be
weaned off a mild amount of ventilator support and is
currently on a pressure support of 10, a positive
end-expiratory pressure of 8, and an FIO2 of 60%.  He has
required aggressive pulmonary toilet via suctioning through
his tracheostomy.

Additionally, at one point the patient's failure in weaning
was felt to due malpositioning of the tracheostomy tube which
had come to rest against the posterior membranous wall of the
trachea.  Therefore, he was taken to the Interventional
Pulmonology Service where a new tracheostomy tube was placed
which was then in a more appropriate position.

The patient also had a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus in his sputum.  He has had a persistent white blood
cell count, and this was the presumed source.  He is
currently on vancomycin for this and will be completing
another 1-week course of vancomycin post discharge.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  The patient has a history of
atrial fibrillation and continued to be in atrial
fibrillation postoperatively.  At times he was in a rapid
ventricular response which was controlled with both beta
blockers, and at one point an amiodarone bolus plus drip,
which seemed to control the rapid ventricular response.  He
did not convert into a 