Admission Date:  [**2190-7-31**]     Discharge Date:  [**2190-8-7**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:

Service:  TRAUMA

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 84 year-old Russian
woman who was initially admitted via the Trauma Service after
a fall.  She ultimately died after transfer to the Medical
Service, although I as the trauma surgery attending will
dictate this discharge summary.  The patient had a history of
multiple falls with intracranial bleeds and subdural
hematomas.  She suffered from chronic dementia.  She had an
unwitnessed fall at her nursing home with a possible loss of
consciousness.  Her evaluation on the Trauma Service
demonstrated bilateral frontal intraparenchymal hemorrhages,
a small left occipital subdural hematoma and C5-6 and T7-8
fractures.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Congestive heart failure, coronary
artery disease, atrial fibrillation, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, history of cerebrovascular accident,
history of falls, chronic renal insufficiency, anemia,
recurrent urinary tract infections.  History of right hip
fractures, peripheral vascular disease, insulin dependent
diabetes mellitus.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Captopril, Ciprofloxacin,
Glipizide, Hydralazine, Lopresor, Simvastatin, Trazodone,
Prilosec, Celexa, Imdur and Colace.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient had a full trauma evaluation
including abdominal and pelvic CT scans.  She was intubated
after arrival and extubated on the second hospital day.
During this admission she developed oliguric acute renal
failure with her creatinine rising to 5.  This was thought
due to contrast.  She suffered from a urinary tract
infection.  She had a progressive metabolic acidosis.  Her
liver function tests were found to be abnormal with a
transaminase in the high 100s.  She had a persistent
coagulopathy.  On the [**9-5**] she was found to be
unresponsive and in congestive heart failure.  She then had
an episode of apnea and hypertension prior to dialysis.  She
was intubated for airway protection.  She was then
transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit due to
persistent acidosis.  It was thought to be due to
hypoperfusion possibly due to a cardiac etiology.  The
patient after a brief period in the Medical Intensive Care
Unit and consultation with the family she was then found to
have had another respiratory arrest and in conjunction with
the family she passed away.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Deceased.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Deceased.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Intracranial hemorrhage with metabolic acidosis and
respiratory arrest.

PROCEDURES AND DATES:  None.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 520**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 521**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1779**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2190-10-31**]  07:24
T:  [**2190-11-5**]  05:58
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
