Admission Date:  [**2190-6-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2190-7-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2134-1-3**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Hospital1 **] MEDICINE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 56-year-old female
with a history of rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, anemia, and
status post Nissen fundoplication in [**2173**] for severe
gastroesophageal reflux disease, transferred from an outside
hospital for possible embolization of a GI bleed.  The
patient first developed black tarry stools two weeks ago
prior to admission and an EGD at the time showed a small
ulcer at the gastroesophageal junction.  She received 1 unit
of packed red blood cells and was discharged in stable
condition at that time.

On [**2190-6-21**], three days prior to admission, she again
developed black tarry stools.  She was scheduled to see Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5656**], her gastroenterologist, who performed an EGD on
[**2190-6-23**], one day prior to admission.  This EGD showed a
normal upper GI tract.  She was admitted to [**Hospital 1263**] Hospital
the following day for a colonoscopy which only showed old
blood in the cecum.  A repeat upper GI was done and showed
two clots in the fundus with fresh blood.  She was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit at [**Hospital 1263**] Hospital,
and then transferred to the [**Hospital1 188**] for possible angiography and embolization.

At time of admission, she denied chest pain.  She had some
mild shortness of breath especially when standing.  She did
have dizziness when standing.  She also had five stools on
the day of admission with her bowel prep.  She had one bowel
movement prior to transfer.  She denied fever, cough, or
hematemesis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Nissen fundoplication in [**2173**] for severe gastroesophageal
reflux disease.
2. Asthma.
3. Rheumatoid arthritis on Arava, methotrexate, and Enbrel.
4. Bilateral knee replacements in [**2186**].
5. L5-S1 laminectomies.
6. Iron deficiency anemia.
7. Depression.
8. Status post splenectomy.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1. Arava 20 mg q day.
2. Methotrexate 25 mg q week.
3. Enbrel 25 mg 2x/week.
4. Prednisone 10 q day, which was discontinued in [**2190-2-16**].
5. Prozac 20 q day.
6. Doxepin 100 q day.
7. Folate 2 q day.
8. Premarin 0.3 q day.
9. Medroxyprogesterone 2.75 q day.
10. Protonix 40 [**Hospital1 **].

ALLERGIES:
1. Penicillin which lead to wheezing and shortness of breath,
and itching rash.
2. Sulfa which causes hives.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Her maternal grandfather had a history of
stomach cancer, and sister with severe gastroesophageal
reflux disease.  Her father had gastroesophageal reflux
disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She denies tobacco, alcohol, or IV drug use.
She is a retired finance worker.  She is married with four
children.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  As noted above.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, she was afebrile with a
temperature of 98.7, blood pressure was 103/54, with a heart
rate of 100, and oxygen saturation of 97% on room air.  In
general, she was in no acute distress and pale appearing
woman, who is obese.  Her head and neck examination:  Pupils
are equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation.
Extraocular motions were intact.  Her neck was supple with no
lymphadenopathy.  Her heart was regular, rate, and rhythm
with a systolic ejection murmur loudest at the left upper
sternal border.  Her lungs are clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen was soft with no active bowel sounds,
nontender, nondistended, and no hepatosplenomegaly.  Her
extremities were warm and well perfused with no clubbing,
cyanosis, or edema.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  From outside hospital included a
white count of 5.9, hematocrit of 27.7, platelets of 309,000.
Her electrolytes were a sodium of 141, potassium of 4.6,
chloride of 104, bicarbonate of 30, BUN 12, creatinine 0.6,
glucose 121, calcium 8.4, phosphorus 2.6, magnesium 1.9.  Her
coagulation panel included a PT of 12, INR of 1.1, PTT of
25.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Upper GI bleed:  The patient was transferred to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit upon admission, and was managed
expectantly for any potential bleeding.  She was transfused 2
units of packed red blood cells, and evaluated by the
Gastroenterology Service.  They felt that she would benefit
from another esophagogastroduodenoscopy prior to angiography
to further evaluate the possible sources of bleeding.  She
continued with stable vitals, and her EGD showed no active
bleeding source or abnormality in the esophagus, stomach, or
duodenum.

She was continued on observation in the Medical Intensive
Care Unit until her third hospital day, where it was felt
that she was stable to return to the Medical floor.  In the
following morning, however, she had a further episode of
black stool as well as dizziness upon standing and
tachycardia on standing.  She was thus, taken to the
Angiography Vascular Interventional Suite, where a left
gastric artery embolization was performed with gelfoam.
Please see full report for details of the procedure.  The
patient tolerated the procedure well with some residual
nausea and vomiting, for which she was returned to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit postoperatively for expectant
management.

The patient also had one episode of chest pain during the
procedure that was evaluated with an electrocardiogram and
one set of cardiac enzymes which were both negative for any
evidence of ischemia.  It was felt that this was likely
secondary to her gastroesophageal reflux disease from a
horizontal position.

On hospital day seven, the patient was again returned to the
Medical floor after a stable time in the Intensive Care Unit.
She had received 1 unit of packed red blood cells prior to
and during the angiography procedure.  Her hematocrit
following this transfusion was 35.2.

For the remainder of her hospital stay, the hematocrit
drifted slightly down to 33 with several small episodes of
melena.  She was continually followed by the Gastroenterology
Service with repeated hematocrits all remaining within the
stable range.  Her dizziness and tachycardia upon standing
resolved, and no further blood transfusions were necessary.
Her nausea and vomiting resolved after her first day
following the procedure, and no further evidence of bleed was
noted.  Her diet was advanced slowly from clear liquids 48
hours after her embolization procedure, and she was advanced
to soft solids followed by a regular diet on the day prior to
discharge.  She remained pain free with stable vitals and no
further evidence of bleed on hospital day 11, the day of her
discharge.

2. Shortness of breath and hypoxia:  The patient reported
shortness of breath and hypoxia, that was thought to be
secondary to her anemia and deconditioning with decreased
activity over the prior months.  However, given the patient's
changes in volume with transfusions as well as her lower
extremity edema and presence of murmur, an echocardiogram was
obtained which showed normal left ventricular function and
ejection fraction as well as no evidence of diastolic
dysfunction.  Please see full report for details of the
study.

In addition, given her hospitalizations and partial
compliance with Venodynes sequential compression device
boots, it was felt that a pulmonary embolism was also a
possible cause for her shortness of breath.  A CT angiogram
was obtained, and no evidence of pulmonary embolism was
found.  The patient remained on oxygen 2 liters nasal cannula
during her early hospitalization, however, on the final three
days of her hospitalization, she was oxygenating 94% on room
air range.  She was also able to ambulate without shortness
of breath or desaturation.  It was felt that her hypoxia was
possibly secondary to her history of asthma/reactive airways
disease.  Further workup as an outpatient is recommended as
needed.

3. Rheumatoid arthritis:  The patient's rheumatoid arthritis
medicines were held during this initial acute episode.  She
remained without pain or flare of her rheumatoid arthritis,
however, on the final hospital day, she complained of some
mild joint symptoms in her hands.  It was recommended that
she resume her rheumatoid arthritis me