Admission Date:  [**2150-11-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2150-11-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2101-5-20**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 49-year-old Caucasian
male with a history of familial dysautonomia and metastatic
lung cancer.  The patient presented to the Emergency Room
following a brief syncopal episode that was preceded by acute
shortness of breath.  The patient states that he had not had
any pulmonary symptoms prior to [**2150-9-6**] when he
developed acute shortness of breath, for which he was seen at
[**Hospital3 **].  He was found to have a large right-sided
pleural effusion at that time.  A pleurocentesis yielded a
malignant fluid that was later diagnosed as an
adenocarcinoma.  A follow-up CT scan of the chest and abdomen
revealed metastases to the liver.  The patient, at that time,
was started on Taxol and carboplatin.  He received a second
round of chemotherapy three days prior to this admission.

The morning of admission, the patient states that he was in
his usual state of health.  He went to dinner with his
parents and shortly after, he started to complain of
increasing shortness of breath that was not relieved by his
home oxygen.  The mother reports that the patient started to
hyperventilate and then briefly passed out.  There was no
head trauma, seizure activity, bowel or bladder incontinence.
The patient denies any chest pain, chest tightness.  He also
denies any recent weight gain or increased swelling in the
lower extremities.  He does report two-pillow orthopnea.
Neither the mother nor the patient were really able to
adequately describe the dyspnea.  They were not able to say
whether it was an air hunger, or unable to catch his breath,
or whether he was just unable to catch a deep breath.  Their
only description was that the patient just had increased
breathing efforts.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Familial dysautonomia.  This is a
rare genetic disorder.  It is a progressive sensorimotor
neuropathy where the patient tends to lose reflexes,
hypotonia, decreased perception of pain and temperature,
orthostatic hypotension, and swallowing dysfunction.  2) A
right hip fracture, status post open reduction and internal
fixation in [**2150-6-6**].  3) Adenocarcinoma of unknown origin,
presumed to be lung cancer with metastases to the liver.

ALLERGIES:  Include aspirin.

MEDICATIONS UPON ADMISSION AS FOLLOWS:  1) Valium 2 mg prn,
2) Florinef 0.1 mg q am, 0.2 mg q pm, 3) [**Doctor First Name **] 60 mg qd, 4)
Actonel 35 mg q weekly, 5) artificial eyedrops, 6) compazine
prn, 7) multivitamin, 8) carboplatin and Taxol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies any alcohol, IV drug use,
or smoking history.  He lives in a group home.

LABS UPON ADMISSION AS FOLLOWS:  White blood count 13.6,
hematocrit 32.9, platelet count 209.  His differential showed
53% neutrophils, 11% bands, 24% lymphocytes, 6% monocytes, 2%
eosinophils, and 1% basophils.  His Chem-7 showed a sodium of
135, potassium 3.8, chloride 93, bicarb 25, BUN 37,
creatinine 0.9, and glucose 182.  INR 0.9.  His urinalysis
revealed trace proteins and greater than 250 glucose.  His
cardiac enzymes were cycled and were negative x 3.

His EKG showed sinus tachycardia at 110 beats per minute;
normal axis; left ventricular hypertrophy; a left atrial
abnormality; T wave inversion in leads III and V6; Q waves in
V4 and V5; normal intervals.

His chest x-ray revealed:  Severe kyphoscoliosis, an
ill-defined opacity at the right lung base.  CT of the chest
revealed no evidence of pulmonary emboli.  A large
consolidation of the right lung base with air bronchograms,
suggestive of pneumonia.  Given the dilated, gas-filled
esophagus, aspiration pneumonia should be considered.  There
was also a smaller possible left lower lobe pneumonia.
Marked rotary scoliosis of the thoracic spine.  Multiple
sclerotic foci in the lower thoracic vertebral bodies that
could represent metastases.

An echocardiogram was also performed.  The echocardiogram
results showed a normal left atrium.  Left ventricular wall
thickness and left cavity size were normal.  Overall left
ventricular systolic function was greater than 55%.  Right
ventricular chamber size was normal.  There was mild global
right ventricular free wall hypokinesis.  The aortic root was
moderately dilated.  The aortic valve leaflets were mildly
thickened.  No aortic regurgitation was seen.  The mitral
valve appeared structurally normal with trivial mitral
regurgitation.  The estimated pulmonary artery systolic
pressure was normal.  There was trivial pericardial effusion.

PHYSICAL EXAM INCLUDED THE FOLLOWING:  His heart rate was
105, blood pressure ranged from 180-65 systolic and from
130-40 diastolic, respiratory rate 32, O2 sats 90% on room
air, 96% on a nonrebreather, temperature upon admission 95.4.
In general, this was a frail-appearing male who appeared
older than his stated age.  He was in minor respiratory
distress on a nonrebreather mask.  There was audible
gurgling.  He was alert and oriented x 3.  He had decreased
reflexes in the upper and lower extremities.  The patient had
notable JVD to the angle of the mandible.  He was anicteric.
He had pinpoint pupils bilaterally.  His chest showed severe
kyphoscoliosis.  There were rales and rhonchi throughout the
entire right lung.  The patient also had egophony on the
right side.  He had rales and rhonchi in the lower half of
the left chest.  The patient had a palpable PMI.  He was in
regular rate and rhythm with a loud S1, S2.  His abdomen
showed two well-healed midabdominal scars.  He was without
rebound tenderness, or tenderness to deep palpation.
Hepatosplenomegaly could not be appreciated.  He had normal
bowel sounds.  The patient had +2 edema in the left leg, +1
pedal edema in the right leg.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This was a 49-year-old male with a history
of familial dysautonomia and lung cancer who presented with
an acute onset of dyspnea.  The dyspnea appeared to be due to
a number of factors, to include decreased compliance due to
his kyphoscoliosis; a large pleural effusion; possible
aspiration pneumonia; anemia; and questionable myocardial
dysfunction.  In the Emergency Room, the patient was given 40
mg of IV lasix, and he responded with approximately 4.5
liters of urine over the next three to four hours.  Due to
his autonomic dysfunction, the patient was repleted with
several IV boluses for a total of 2.5 liters.  His net loss
was approximately 2 liters in the first 24 hours.  Following
the diuresis, the patient's O2 saturation improved and he was
able to be weaned off the nonrebreather to the nasal cannula.
The patient was also started up on Levaquin for a possible
pneumonia.

The patient's white blood count upon admission was 13 with
11% bands.  Initially, it was thought that this was due to
his chemotherapy and Neupogen.  On the second day of
admission, the patient's white blood count dropped to 2.3.
In discussion with the patient's oncologist, this precipitous
drop was consistent with the nadir expected with his
chemotherapy regimen.  The patient was observed and continued
to improve.  It was requested that he stay for one additional
night on the general medicine floor for observation, but the
patient insisted on going home.  He stated that he would
follow-up with his primary care physician and his oncologist
in the next week.  He was discharged home in stable
condition.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  1) Familial dysautonomia.  2)
Adenocarcinoma, presumed to originate from pulmonary source.
3) Pneumonia.  4) Pulmonary edema believed to be of cardiac
origin.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1) Valium 2 mg prn, 2) Florinef 0.1
mg q am, 0.2 mg q pm, 3) [**Doctor First Name **] 60 mg qd, 4) multivitamin,
5) Actonel 35 mg q weekly, 6) artificial eyedrops, 7)
compazine prn, 8) Levaquin 500 qd for 2 weeks, 9) lasix 10 mg
prn for fluid overload.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3090**], M.D.
[**MD Number(1) 3091**]

Dictated By:[**MD Number(1) 11938**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2150-11-18**]  14:08
T:  [**2150-11-23**]  11:25
JOB#:  [**Job Number 11939**]

cc:[**Male First Name (un) 11940**]