Admission Date:  [**2173-10-13**]       Discharge Date:  [**2173-11-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2152-3-29**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine

ADDENDUM:  This Discharge Summary Addendum will cover the
hospital course from [**2173-11-1**] to [**2173-11-4**]
when the patient was transferred to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM
(CONTINUED):

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  The patient did not have any
further arrhythmias once his atrioventricular node had been
ablated.

2.  PNEUMONIA ISSUES:  The patient's vancomycin was
discontinued as he had completed greater than a 30-day
course.  Repeat sputum cultures did grow
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; however, at this
time it was thought that this was most certainly a colonizer
as the patient had previously had adequate vancomycin
treatment.  The patient's white blood cell count remained
stable off the vancomycin.  The patient was continued on the
Zosyn in order to complete a total of a 14-day course from
the most recent start date which was [**10-25**].  In
addition, the patient's sputum culture did grow
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia which was thought to be a
colonizer.  Therefore, the patient was not started on any
Bactrim therapy.

The patient was continued on aggressive pulmonary toilet and
continued to do well from an infectious standpoint.

3.  HYPOXIA ISSUES:  The patient was noted to have several
episodes of hypoxia during the night; the first of which
occurred on [**10-25**] at midnight.  At that time, the
patient desaturated to 70%.  His face mask was found to have
fallen off of his tracheotomy.  Therefore, it was thought
that his acute oxygen desaturation with resultant somnolence
was due to the lack of oxygen, and the event was not further
investigated.  The blood gas at that time showed a pH of
7.31, a PCO2 of 53, and a PAO2 of 300, and 53 once the
patient was placed back on his oxygen.

As there was an inciting event; namely removal of the oxygen
mask, it was not further investigated. However, the patient
had a repeat episode of unresponsiveness in the middle of the
night which occurred several days later (on [**10-31**]).  At
that time, the patient's oxygen saturations were normal.
However, while the patient was being evaluated he became
acutely cyanotic without any stridor or wheezing, but he was
noted to be apneic, and his oxygen saturation dropped to 30%
to 70%.  The cyanotic episode lasted less than 10 seconds and
then resolved.  The patient woke up and began responding to
simple commands and moving his extremities; although,
initially he had been fully unresponsive.  The patient
suffered a third episode of unresponsiveness at night the
following night (on [**10-30**]); however, at this time, his
oxygen saturation was completely normal throughout with no
cyanosis noted.

Due to these episodes, the patient was evaluated by Neurology
who felt that electroencephalogram telemetry would be useful.
In addition, they recommended a formal sleep study which
could not be performed as the patient was an inpatient at the
time.  The electroencephalogram study showed a slight
abnormality with a regular poorly developed 7-hertz to
8-hertz beta and alpha activity interrupted by occasional
bursts of generalized frontal occipital predominant 2-hertz
delta activity.  It was interpreted that the patient did not
have any seizure activity, but he did have the propensity for
further seizures due to several spikes that were noted that
were not seizure activity.  Neurology felt that seizures were
not the etiology for the patient's apneic or unresponsive
episodes and invoked central sleep apnea.

Therefore, the patient underwent an abbreviated sleep study
on the floor which incurred overnight oxymetry as well as
overnight seizure dilator activity as measured by a finger
monitor.  This sleep study showed 14.7 respiratory
disturbances events per hour and 8.7 oxygen desaturation
events per hour; which suggested central sleep apnea.  These
events occurred mostly between the hours of midnight and in
the morning and were likely associated with REM sleep.  Due
to the patient's likely sleep apnea, he was transferred to
the Medical Intensive Care Unit in order to receive [**Hospital1 **]-level
positive airway pressure titration so that he could remain on
[**Hospital1 **]-level positive airway pressure overnight with a backup
rate to compensate for his central sleep apnea.  Of note,
central sleep apnea is a cause of death in most [**Doctor Last Name **]-man
syndrome patients and is a known complication.  In addition,
the patient has clear brain stem atrophy on magnetic
resonance imaging which correlates with these symptoms.

In addition, the patient had several other unresponsive
events during the day; during which time he was noted to have
normal muscle tone, withdrawal to touch, held his eyes shut
so that they could not be opened, and was intermittently
verbal.  It was thought that these occasions were most likely
consistent with voluntary pseudocatatonia and related to the
patient's depression which he freely admitted was a result of
his extended hospital stay and poor functional capacity.  The
patient was completely normal on neurologic examination after
these episodes.

4.  DIABETES INSIPIDUS ISSUES:  The patient was transitioned
to Glargine once per day with a new Humalog sliding-scale,
and this seemed to control his blood sugars very well.

In terms of other systems, the patient was stable with no
changes from the prior Discharge Summary except for
increasing depression.  The patient was transferred to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit in fair condition for further
[**Hospital1 **]-level positive airway pressure titration.





                      DR.[**First Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) 734**] 12-944

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5615**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2173-11-4**]  09:50
T:  [**2173-11-4**]  10:13
JOB#:  [**Job Number 37777**]
