Admission Date:  [**2166-4-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2166-5-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2108-3-2**]     Sex:  F

Service:

ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:  Adenoid cystocarcinoma of the carina.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS AND HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient
is a delightful 58-year-old woman, who presented with
bilateral pneumonia and was found to have an obstructive
tumor of the carina.

We took her to the operating room and debulked the tumor, and
sent it off for pathological analysis.  The path came back as
adenoid cystocarcinoma of the carina.  After at least six
week period of pulmonary rehabilitation, she was rescanned,
and found to have no evidence of metastasis.  We took her to
the operating room, and performed a mediastinoscopy to
mobilize the pretracheal plane, and found no evidence of
mediastinal adenopathy in the paratracheal region.  There is
also no evidence of invasion of the pulmonary artery.

We therefore, performed a right thoracotomy and a carinal
resection with primary reconstruction.  She did well, and was
maintained in the Intensive Care Unit for several days.  She
was then sent to the floor, where she underwent a flexible
bronchoscopy by Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] [**Name (STitle) **] on postoperative day #7.
This revealed a nicely reconstructed trachea and carina.
After keeping her in the hospital for a few more days, she
was discharged in excellent condition.



                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3351**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3352**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 9931**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2166-8-7**]  18:35
T:  [**2166-8-11**]  08:35
JOB#:  [**Job Number 12890**]
