Admission Date:  [**2163-7-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2163-8-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2087-7-5**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Service

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient was admitted for shortness of
breath and atrial fibrillation.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known firstname **] [**Known lastname 51647**] is a
76-year-old gentleman who presented to an outside hospital
with shortness of breath in the setting of bronchitis treated
with Bactrim.

However, on admission, the patient was acutely short of
breath with a creatinine of 2.6.  While at the outside
hospital he experienced a self-limited run of ventricular
tachycardia was chest pain.  He has never complained of chest
pain but does have increasing dyspnea on exertion.  The
patient denied dizziness, nausea, vomiting, fevers, chills,
or chest pain at that time.  Also at the outside hospital,
the patient was noted to be in atrial fibrillation.  His
troponin at that time showed a peak of 0.28.

He was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
for further cardiac workup.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (His past medical history is
significant for)
1.  Coronary artery disease; status post catheterization in
[**2163-4-2**] in [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 108**] hospital.
2.  Congestive heart failure, mild to moderate mitral
regurgitation.
3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
4.  Diabetes mellitus.
5.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
6.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
7.  Chronic atrial fibrillation.
8.  Hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  (His medications on transfer were)
 1.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq p.o. once per day
 2.  Lasix 80 mg p.o. once per day.
 3.  Zaroxolyn 5 mg p.o. once per day.
 4.  Glipizide 10 mg p.o. twice per day.
 5.  Metformin 1000 mg p.o. twice per day.
 6.  Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. twice per day.
 7.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. once per day.
 8.  Isosorbide 10 mg p.o. once per day.
 9.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. once per day.
10.  Ferrous sulfate 325 mg p.o. once per day.
11.  Aciphex 20 mg p.o. once per day.
12.  Restoril.

ALLERGIES:  He states allergies to COUMADIN (which gives him
a headache) and ZOCOR (which causes muscle pain).

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a retired owner of a printing
company.  The patient has been married.  60 plus years of
past smoking.  Past ethanol use which was stopped one year
ago.  Occupational exposures to benzine.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   The patient's
physical examination on admission revealed vital signs with a
blood pressure of 115/53, heart rate was 88, temperature was
98.1 degrees Fahrenheit, respiratory rate was 20, and oxygen
saturation was 94% on room air. In general, an elderly male
in mild distress.  Shortness of breath with speech.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed mucous
membranes were moist.  Bleeding at the right corner of his
mouth.  Extraocular movements were intact.  The oropharynx
was clear with poor dentition.  The neck was difficult to
assess given size.  No lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed irregularly irregular.  A soft 2/6
systolic murmur at the apex.  Lung examination revealed
crackles up to one half of the way with expiratory wheezes.
Extremity examination revealed compression stockings and 2+
bilateral edema.  Faint pulses.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Past catheterization done in
[**State 108**] in [**Month (only) 958**] of this years showed 40% left main, 80%
diagonal, and 70% mid left anterior descending artery, 40%
distal left anterior descending artery, 90% mid circumflex,
70% sequential ramus, and 40% to 50% right coronary artery
lesion.

Most recent echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of
50%.  At that time, the patient was recommended to have
coronary artery bypass graft and an automatic internal
cardioverter-defibrillator placed because of his ventricular
tachycardia.  He refused at that time as he preferred to come
to [**State 350**].

A chest x-ray showed prominence of pulmonary vasculature with
cardiomegaly, atelectasis at the left base, and congestive
heart failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   The Cardiology Service was
consulted, and the patient was ruled out for a myocardial
infarction.

On [**8-2**], the patient was brought to the Cardiac
Catheterization Laboratory.  Please see the catheterization
report for full details.  In summary, the catheterization
showed left main 50%, left anterior descending artery 95%,
left circumflex 90%, right coronary artery 100%, and ramus
90%.  Additionally, the patient had 2+ mitral regurgitation
and an ejection fraction of 38%.

Following catheterization, Cardiothoracic Surgery was
consulted.  The patient was seen and accepted for coronary
artery bypass grafting.

The following morning, the patient was brought to the
operating room.  Please see the Operative Report for full
details.  In summary, the patient had coronary artery bypass
grafting times four with a left internal mammary artery to
the left anterior descending artery, saphenous vein graft to
diagonal, saphenous vein graft to ramus, and saphenous vein
graft to the posterior descending artery.  His bypass time
was 73 minutes with a cross-clamp time of 61 minutes.

He was transferred from the operating room to the
Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.  At the time of transfer,
the patient's mean arterial pressure was 82.  He was in
atrial fibrillation at 92 beats per minute.  At that time, he
had no milrinone at 0.25 mcg/kg per minute, Neo-Synephrine at
1.25 mcg/kg per minute, and aprotinin at 50 mcg/kg.

Upon arrival to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit the
patient was noted to have elevated pulmonary artery pressures
to 70/30.  An emergent transesophageal echocardiogram which
showed moderate mitral regurgitation and an
ejection fraction of 33%.  He was treated with intravenous
Lasix.  His milrinone was increased to 0.6 mcg/kg per minute.
His Neo-Synephrine drip was titrated up for systolic blood
pressures of 100.  He was also noted to have frequent
premature ventricular contractions with multiple 3 to 6 beat
runs of ventricular tachycardia.  A lidocaine drip was
started at that time with resolution of ventricular
tachycardia.

The patient remained hemodynamically stable over the next
several hours.  However, his urine output was noted to be
drifting off.  At that time, a dopamine infusion was begun.
With the addition of the dopamine, the patient's heart rate
increased up to the 140 to 150 range, and the dopamine
infusion was discontinued.  The patient was additionally
loaded with digoxin to help control his heart rate which at
baseline was 100 to 110 with atrial fibrillation.

On postoperative day one, the patient's milrinone dose began
to be tapered. His lidocaine was decreased to 1 mg per
minute.  His Neo-Synephrine was weaned to keep a mean
arterial pressure of 70.  He was started on a Natrecor drip
to support his renal status.

On postoperative day two, the lidocaine infusion was
discontinued.  The patient remained on Natrecor and
Neo-Synephrine.  His sedation was discontinued.  He was
weaned from the ventilator and successfully extubated.

On postoperative day three, the patient remained
hemodynamically stable.  However, he continued to require
Neo-Synephrine to maintain and adequate blood pressure.  His
chest tubes were discontinued.  From a renal standpoint, the
patient continued to make adequate amounts of urine, and his
Natrecor infusion was also discontinued.

On postoperative day four, the patient was weaned from his
Neo-Synephrine drip.  Following that wean, he remained in
atrial fibrillation with an adequate blood pressure.  The
plans were made to transfer the patient to the floor on the
following day.

On postoperative day five, the patient looked well and was
transferred to the floor for continued postoperative care and
cardiac rehabilitation.  Over the next several days with the
assistance of the nursing staff and Physical Therapy, the
patient's activity level was increased.  It was felt by the
team that he would need a short stay in rehabilitation.

On postoperative day eight, it was decided that the patient
was stable and ready to be transferred to rehabilitation.

PHYSICA