Admission Date:  [**2142-5-1**]       Discharge Date:  [**2142-5-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2071-2-22**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT & [**Hospital 259**] MEDICAL FIRM

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient's chief complaint of initial
presentation to outside hospital was fever and palpitations.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 71 year old man
with a past medical history as described below, who initially
presented to an outside hospital on [**2142-4-30**], with
confusion, fatigue, fevers and palpitations.  He was
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] the
following day for further evaluation of hypotension and
decreased urine output.  At the outside hospital, he was also
noted to be in atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter and had
an elevation in his cardiac enzymes.  Chest x-ray and CT
angiogram at the time were negative.

Upon transfer, the patient was started empirically on
Vancomycin and Ceftriaxone as treatment for meningitis given
his change in mental status.  MRI of the head was performed
which showed an old cerebellar infarction and
micro-angiopathic changes, but no acute infarction.  Lumbar
puncture was performed which was negative.

CT scan of the chest without contrast was done initially
because of the patient's acute renal failure and it showed
only small bilateral pleural effusions.

The patient continued to be hypoxic however, with an
increased A:A gradient.  The patient had been anti-coagulated
with Lovenox at the outside hospital because of his atrial
fibrillation, however CT angiogram was performed again to
rule out pulmonary embolism.  Prior to the CT angiogram being
done, the patient experienced a significant episode of
hematemesis for which the heparin drip was stopped.  CT
angiogram was eventually done which showed a left anterior
segmental pulmonary embolism.

Bilateral lower extremity non-invasive studies were done
which were negative for deep vein thrombosis and the patient
was restarted on the heparin drip.

Later that evening, on [**2142-5-3**], the patient became acutely
hypoxic with O2 saturations in the 70s; his skin was mottled.
He was noted to be in atrial flutter at a rate of 150 with a
blood pressure initially of 180/90.  The arterial blood gases
at that time showed pH of 7.26, pCO2 of 40 and a pO2 of 51.
The patient was intubated for respiratory failure.  His
temperature at that time was noted to be 102.0 F.

Subsequently, the patient became hypotensive with systolic
blood pressures in the 80s which responded to aggressive
volume resuscitation.  A transesophageal echocardiogram was
done to evaluate for right ventricular thrombus, and revealed
dilatation of the right ventricle and mild global hypokinesis
but no intramural thrombus.

As the patient's blood pressure improved on intravenous
fluids, lysis of his pulmonary embolism and likely recurrent
massive pulmonary embolus was deferred.  In the setting of
this acute stress, the patient had a non-ST elevation
myocardial infarction with a peak troponin of 3.2.  He
remained hemodynamically stable and anti-coagulated on
heparin which was again complicated by a gastrointestinal
bleed in which the patient had significant amounts of melena.
Nasogastric lavage was performed which was negative.

The patient was transfused two units of packed red blood
cells and his hematocrit improved to 31.2 from a nadir of
28.0.  GI was consulted at the time and
esophagogastroduodenoscopy was deferred.  The patient's stool
continued to be occult blood positive from that time on, but
he had no further frank melena.  The patient was extubated on
[**5-5**] and was rather tachypneic and wheezy immediately
thereafter but responded very well to nebulizers.

Following extubation, the patient was total body overloaded
from his aggressive volume resuscitation, approximately 13
liters for length of stay and was diuresed aggressively
between one and two liters per day, which he tolerated well.
The patient was transferred to the Medical Service on
[**2142-5-6**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass grafting in [**2140**] at [**Hospital6 **] Hospital.
2.  Post-polio syndrome.
3.  Gout.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF TRANSFER FROM THE INTENSIVE CARE
UNIT:
[**Unit Number **].  Protonix 40 mg intravenously twice a day.
2.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. q. day.
3.  Heparin drip with a goal PTT of 60 to 65 because of the
patient's gastrointestinal bleeding.
4.  Tylenol p.r.n.
5.  Zocor 40 mg q. day.
6.  Captopril 6.25 mg three times a day.
7.  Lasix 20 mg intravenously q. day.
8.  Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers p.r.n.
9.  Allopurinol 100 mg p.o. q. day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   At the time of admission, the patient
was afebrile at 98.8 F., heart rate was 76; blood pressure
136/66; respiratory rate 20 and he was saturating 100% on a
face tent at 15 liters per minute.  Intake and output on the
day of transfer were 1000 in and over 3000 out.  In general,
he complained only of fatigue, but he was in no acute
distress and was alert and oriented times three.  Examination
of his neck revealed no jugular venous distention.  His heart
examination was regular without murmur, although Telemetry
revealed a rhythm of atrial flutter.  His lung examination at
the time revealed diffuse expiratory wheezing.  His abdominal
examination was benign.  Extremity examination revealed two
plus peripheral edema throughout.

LABORATORY:  At the time of transfer, white blood cell count
was 6.9, hematocrit 29.7, platelets 214.  PTT was 84.3.
Chem-7 was unremarkable.

HOSPITAL COURSE ON [**Hospital 259**] MEDICAL FIRM:
1.  PULMONARY EMBOLISM:  The patient was continued on his
heparin drip with a goal PTT as listed above.  Coumadin
initiation was delayed for a couple of days while the
Gastrointestinal and Cardiology Services consulted
considering procedures to correct his atrial flutter and
gastrointestinal bleeds respectively.  Ultimately, Coumadin
was begun at 5 mg q. day and the patient's INR slowly
increased.  He was changed to 7.5 mg q. day at the time of
discharge.

His respiratory status improved dramatically over 24 to 48
hours and was weaned to room air with saturations of 93 to
94%, while ambulating.  He had very rare short bursts of
pleuritic chest pain on the left side.  EKG was checked at
one of these occasions which was unchanged from the previous
and the pain was only fleeting with no elevations of cardiac
enzymes.

For his wheezing, he received Albuterol and Atrovent
nebulizers on a p.r.n. basis which responded very well.  As
the patient's gastrointestinal bleeding was stable, he was
anti-coagulated and will be continued on anti-coagulation
therapy for a minimum of six months.

2.  FEVER:  The patient initially presented to the outside
hospital with fevers and continued to have fever to 102.0 F.,
at [**Hospital1 69**].  A thorough work-up
was done including lumbar puncture as listed above and
various viral serologies at the recommendation of the
Infectious Disease consultation.  Because the patient is from
[**Hospital2 **] [**Hospital3 **] area, numerous etiologies were thought plausible
and the patient was ruled out for both influenzae both A and
B, CMV, Lyme Disease, EBV, both IgG and IgM were checked with
the IgG positive, Histoplasma and Ehrlichia and RSV, all of
which were negative.  Blood cultures and urine culture were
all negative as well.

It was felt that the patient either had a viral syndrome to
explain his fever or that the fever was due to the pulmonary
embolism itself.  No antibiotics were given after the day of
admission after the lumbar puncture was done and was found to
be negative.

3.  NON-ST ELEVATION MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION:  This was felt to
be due secondary to demand in the setting of atrial flutter
in the rate of 150s and massive pulmonary embolism.  The
patient was already anti-coagulated on heparin.  Aspirin was
held, however, because of his gastrointestinal bleeding.  The
patient was started on Captopril which was titrated to 25
three times a day at the time of discharge and converted to
Lisinopril 10 mg for decreased pill burden at the time of
discharge.  In addition, he was sta