Admission Date: [**2139-9-21**]        Discharge Date: [**2139-9-30**]

Date of Birth:  [**2062-12-16**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 76-year-old male was
referred to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] for a history of mitral
regurgitation. He had dyspnea on exertion for 6 months and
exertional chest pain. He had a 10-year history of mitral
valve prolapse followed by serial echo's which showed
worsening MR in recent months. He admits to progressive DOE
and exertional chest pain. Denies any symptoms at rest. No
PND or palpitations or orthopnea/[**Known firstname **] syncope. He remains
very active and works almost every day.

Preop cardiac cath showed a left-dominant system  with a
patent stent of his mid left circumflex, 3+ MR, ejection
fraction of 62% and a cardiac output of 4.18 L/min. Echo done
in [**2139-6-10**] showed mild AI, moderate MR, mild TR and an
ejection fraction of 70%.

PREOPERATIVE LABORATORY DATA:  White count of 8.9; hematocrit
of 40.2; platelet count of 294,000. PT of 13.2, PTT of 29.0,
INR of 1.2. Urinalysis was negative. Sodium of 139, K of 4.8,
chloride of 99, bicarbonate of 26, BUN of 19, creatinine of
0.9 with a blood sugar of 80. ALT of 18, AST of 24, alkaline
phosphatase of 119, total bilirubin of 0.7, total protein of
7.3, albumin of 4.6, globulin of 2.7, HbA1C of 5.7%.

RADIOLOGIC AND OTHER STUDIES:  Preop carotid series showed
antegrade flow in both vertebral arteries and moderate plaque
with bilateral 40% to 60% carotid stenoses.

Preop chest x-ray showed multifocal asbestos-related plaque
with some calcified plaque in the left hemithorax with a
suggestion of left atrial enlargement, but no other
cardiopulmonary abnormality. Please refer to the official
report dated [**2139-9-2**].

Preop EKG showed sinus rhythm at 62 with atrial premature
depolarizations.

Preop echo showed an ejection fraction of greater than 60%,
normal aortic root and ascending aorta. No AS. Mild AI.
Moderate-to-severe mitral valve prolapse with 2+ MR and 2+
TR. Please refer to the official report dated [**2139-9-11**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Mitral valve prolapse with mitral regurgitation.
2.  Coronary artery disease with left circumflex stent in
    [**2133**].
3.  Elevated cholesterol.
4.  Hypothyroidism.
5.  Neurofibromatosis.
6.  Pulmonary asbestosis.
7.  Bilateral carotid artery stenosis with peripheral
    vascular disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Status post inguinal hernia repairs,
status post multiple nodule removals for neurofibromatosis
and status post basal cell carcinoma on his back.

PREOPERATIVE MEDICATIONS:  Zetia 10 mg p.o. daily, Levoxyl 75
mcg p.o. daily, Lipitor 40 mg p.o. daily, Toprol XL 100 mg
p.o. daily, aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily, calcium and
multivitamin daily.

ALLERGIES:  He had no known allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His father died at 72 of coronary
thrombosis.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his wife. [**Name (NI) **] is a retired
computer specialist. He denies any alcohol or tobacco use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Heart rate of 70, respiratory rate of
14, blood pressure on the right of 122/50 and on the left of
120/60, weight of 163 pounds, 5 feet and 6 inches tall. He
was in no apparent distress. He had multiple subacute
nodules. He had a significant left eye droop. His neck was
supple. Full range of motion. Lungs were clear bilaterally.
Heart was regular in rate and rhythm with a grade 4/6
systolic ejection murmur at the left lower sternal border.
His abdomen was soft, nontender and nondistended with
positive bowel sounds. His extremities were warm and well
perfused with trace edema on the right greater than the left.
Had no known varicosities, and his neurologic exam was
grossly intact. He had bilateral 1+ femoral, DP and PT
pulses; and a soft carotid bruit on the left and 1+ on the
right.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  He was admitted as a same-day admission on
[**9-21**] and underwent mitral valve replacement with a 27-
mm [**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] pericardial valve by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]. He
was transferred to the cardiothoracic ICU in stable condition
on an epinephrine drip at 0.02 mcg/kg/min, a nitroglycerin
drip at 0.5 mcg/kg/min, and a propofol titrated drip.

On postoperative day 1, he had been extubated overnight. He
had some short bursts of AFib, but was in sinus rhythm in the
morning at 73 with a blood pressure of 123/48. Postop labs as
follows: K of 6.0, BUN of 16, creatinine of 0.9, white count
of 16.7, PT of 14.3, with an INR of 1.4. He began Lopressor
beta blockade and Lasix diuresis. He was alert and oriented,
and his exam was otherwise unremarkable; and he was
transferred out to the floor in stable condition on an
insulin drip in the morning of 0.5 units per hour.

On postoperative day 2, his chest tubes were discontinued. He
had a 10% right apical pneumothorax, from which he was not
symptomatic post chest tube pull. He was in first-degree AV
block at a heart rate of 65, maintaining good blood pressure.
He continued his perioperative antibiotics; was restarted on
his Synthroid and other cardiac medicines. His central venous
line was removed. Pacing wires remained in place. He was
alert and oriented with an unremarkable exam. A cardiology
consult was requested for evaluation of his atrial
tachycardia and first-degree AV block. Their recommendation
was to continue his beta blocker and continue to monitor. He
remained alert and oriented in his 2:1 AV block over the
course of the first 2 days. He started to work with the
nurses and physical therapists on increasing his activity
level and endurance.

On postoperative day 3, his chest tubes had been removed. He
was encouraged to ambulate and to increase his activity
level. He was transfused 1 unit of packed red blood cells for
a low hematocrit, but remained hemodynamically stable as his
heart rate rose to the 70s.

On postoperative day 4, he went back and forth between sinus
bradycardia and Wenckebach rhythm. At that point EP consult
recommended discontinuing his Lopressor. He went into atrial
fibrillation that morning with a ventricular response rate of
57 and a systolic blood pressure of 107; was seen by Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] of electrophysiology.

The patient went back into sinus rhythm overnight on
postoperative day 5; and heparin, which had been started, was
stopped. On the 17th, the patient was in sinus rhythm in the
80s; and cardiology reevaluated the patient again as he
appeared to be somewhat stable, in sinus rhythm at 80s to 90s
with occasional first-degree AV block.

On postoperative day 6, he was back in atrial fibrillation
but maintaining a good blood pressure of 127/58. Heparin was
restarted, and first dose of Coumadin was given of 2 mg later
that afternoon for coverage of his atrial fibrillation. His
lung sounds were slightly coarse. His heart was irregular,
but he remained hemodynamically stable. Pacing wires remained
in place.

On postoperative day 7, he remained in atrial fibrillation.
Pacing wires were discontinued. Discharge planning was begun,
and he was restarted on Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. He had
some hyperkalemia with a K of 6.0. Kayexalate was given, and
KCL was discontinued with his Lasix therapy.

On postoperative day 8, he received a second dose of 5 mg of
Coumadin with plans that when his INR crossed 1.5 he would be
able to discharge home with VNA services. Beta blockade was
increased as tolerated. His INR was 1.3 on postoperative day
8. His sternum was stable. He went back into sinus rhythm and
then back to atrial fibrillation on the day of discharge -
[**9-30**] - with an INR of 1.8 on Coumadin therapy.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  He was discharged to home in stable
condition. His blood pressure was 115/55, respiratory rate of
20, heart rate of 67, ventricular rate response, in atrial
fibrillation, weight of 73.2 kilograms, saturating 98% on
room air.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  He was discharged to home with VNA
services on [**2139-9-30**].

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Status post mitral valve repair with a 27-mm pericardial
    valve.
2.  Coronary artery disease; status post left circumflex
    stent in [**2133**].
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Hypothyroi