Admission Date:  [**2160-10-8**]       Discharge Date:  [**2160-10-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2086-8-16**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Neurology
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74 year old
right handed man with a history of hypertension, who
presented to the Emergency Room with acute right sided
weakness.  The patient was in his usual state of health, when
witnessed by his family at 1:00 p.m. on [**2160-10-8**], when
Emergency Room, where his vital signs were stable.  He denied
complaints on arrival.  He denied chest pain and
palpitations.  According to his daughter, he has some chronic
shortness of breath.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Well controlled hypertension.  2.
Benign prostatic hypertrophy.  3.  Osteoarthritis.  4.
Low B12.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Coreg 6.25 mg p.o.b.i.d., Diovan
160/12.5 mg p.o.q.d., Tylenol #3 p.r.n., B12 i.m.q. month,
unclear if patient started this yet, Celebrex p.r.n.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a Russian immigrant, he is
English speaking.  He is a retired artist.  He drinks alcohol
rarely and does not smoke.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination on admission,
the patient had a blood pressure of 160/100, respiratory rate
14, pulse 60 and oxygen saturation 98% on three liters nasal
cannula.  Neck:  No carotid bruits.  Cardiovascular:  Distant
heart sounds, no murmur.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender.  Lungs:
Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Neurologic examination:
Alert and oriented, speech nonfluent with paraphrasic errors,
Russian accent but speaking in English, following commands,
repetition mildly impaired, severe anomia perseverated with
the word "yes", no neglect; cranial nerves, pupils 3 mm and
reactive to light, optic disks sharp, extraocular movements
intact, no nystagmus, inconsistent but decreased response to
finger movements in right hemivisual field, right lower
facial droop, tongue midline, palate symmetrically elevated;
motor, dense right flaccid hemiparesis, moderate flexion in
arm and leg, lifting self off the bed to painful stimuli;
reflexes +2 and symmetric; upgoing toe on right; gait not
assessed.

LABORATORY DATA:  A stat magnetic resonance imaging scan
showed a left thalamic hemorrhage with encroachment into the
ventricle, no intraventricular hemorrhage; there was a small
enhancement with gadolinium which may just have been a
penetrating vessel.  Admission hematocrit was 38, MCV 90,
potassium 3.3 and CK 88.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Neurologic
Intensive Care Unit with an anterior aphasia, right dense
hemiparesis and questionable right visual field loss
secondary to a left thalamic hemorrhage.  The etiology was
assumed, upon admission, to be most likely secondary to
hypertension.  He was admitted for frequent neurological
checks, to keep his systolic blood pressure between 120 and
160.

In the Intensive Care Unit, the patient was observed for high
blood pressure, to keep his blood pressure between 120 and
160.  He was kept on intravenous Lopressor and his blood
pressure was deemed to be in good control.

On [**2160-10-9**], the second day of admission, the
patient's neurological examination was deemed to be slightly
worse, with worsening aphasia and not following commands.  He had
slightly fewer movements on the right than the previous
day.  This was assumed to be due to more edema around the
hemorrhage.  As this was likely, we did not re-scan him.  We
also put him on mechanical Venodynes for deep vein thrombosis
prophylaxis.

On [**2160-10-9**], at 4:39 p.m., a CT scan was done to
evaluate decreased mental status to evaluate for re-bleed.
The impression was a stable left thalamic hemorrhage with
minimal surrounding edema.  There was no change compared with
the magnetic resonance imaging scan from the previous day.
There was mild periventricular white matter hypodensity,
which may be chronic ischemic gliotic change.

A CT scan done on [**2160-10-10**], the third day of
admission, was done to evaluate questionable worsening of
decreasing mental status, as the patient's neurological on
[**2160-10-10**] was showing a fluctuating response.  He was
unable to follow commands.  He was opening his mouth when
asked to and stuck out his tongue when he was asked in
Russian.  He was not fluent, he was not repeating words.  He
did not seem to be comprehending anything.  He had
generalized right arm like weakness continuing from the
previous examination.  Good tone was on the left.

The CT scan on [**2160-10-10**] showed no change compared with
the CT scan done on [**2160-10-9**].  There was a small area
of low attenuation surrounding the hemorrhage, which
represented edema with a minimal midline shift.  However,
this shift was stable in appearance and had not changed
compared with the study of the previous day.

A swallowing study showed that the patient was not swallowing
on [**2160-10-10**], and a nasogastric tube was placed.  Also
on [**2160-10-10**], the patient was spiking a fever to 101.4,
for which a chest x-ray was obtained.  This chest x-ray
showed right lower lobe consolidation, suggestive of
pneumonia.  Repeat films showed no evidence of pleural
effusion and confirmed right lower lobe pneumonia with a view
of the right hemithorax.

On [**2160-10-10**], the patient was started on intravenous
metronidazole 500 mg every eight hours and intravenous
levofloxacin 500 mg daily because of the fever and right
lower lobe pneumonia seen on chest x-ray.

The patient continued to spike fevers throughout the weekend,
although laboratory values of hi white blood cell count were
seen to be low.  The initial white blood cell count on
[**2160-10-10**] was 14.9; on [**2160-10-11**], white blood
cell count was 8.5; on [**2160-10-12**], the white blood cell
count was 9.5.  A repeat chest x-ray on [**2160-10-13**]
showed bibasilar alveolar opacities, improved on the right
and worsened on the left, which likely represented a new
aspiration pneumonia.

The patient was getting repeated nasogastric tubes because he
continually removed them.  He was evaluated for a gastrostomy
tube placement but, because of his fevers, he was not able to
get the placement on [**2160-10-14**].  On [**2160-10-13**],
his white blood cell count was 9.5.  Antibiotics of Levaquin
and Flagyl were continued.

The patient's blood pressure was shown to be under good
control.  Blood cultures had been sent on [**10-10**] and 8,
[**2160**], which did not grow out anything.  On [**2160-10-16**],
the patient was no longer febrile and he received placement
of a gastrojejunostomy tube under radiologic evaluation.  On
[**2160-10-15**], the preceding day, a portable chest x-ray
showed significant improvement of bibasilar pneumonia.

Infectious disease had been consulted through the week of
[**2160-10-13**] and they were following the patient's
antibiotic treatment and his fever spikes.  They did not
recommend any change in his levofloxacin and Flagyl
antibiotic regimen.

On [**2160-10-17**], tube feeds were started with Neutra-Phos
for a low phosphorous count.  The patient's intravenous blood
pressure medications were changed to Lopressor 25 mg per
gastrostomy tube twice a day.  His blood pressure had been
well controlled.  The patient had been afebrile for over 24
hours on the current intravenous levofloxacin and Flagyl
regimen.

On neurological examination, the patient was still nonfluent
in his language, not able to repeat words.  He had a plegic
right upper extremity and right lower extremity and he was
able to freely move his left upper and lower extremities.
This examination is significantly changed from the admission
examination, however, is consistent with the neurological
examination of [**2160-10-10**].  The patient is being changed
to oral antibiotics and is to be discharged to rehabilitation
today.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Lopressor 25 mg per G-tube b.i.d.
Levofloxacin 500 mg per G-tube q.d. times six more doses, for
a total of 14 days therapy.
Flagyl 500 mg per G-tube q.d. times six more doses, for a
total of 14 days therapy.




                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) **]

Dictated By:[*