Admission Date:  [**2166-12-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2167-1-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2108-10-29**]       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left lower extremity pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58-year-old
gentleman with a complicated medical history including type 1
diabetes mellitus (poorly controlled with triopathy),
coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure,
hypertension, peripheral vascular disease who was recently
admitted to [**Hospital3 **] where he was intubated for
congestive heart failure and transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] with a non-ST-elevation myocardial
infarction.  The patient was in respiratory distress and also
required emergent dialysis (acute renal failure for
initiation of hemodialysis for volume overload) and anemia
(requiring recent transfusions) and discharged home on
[**2166-12-2**] without outpatient Nephropathy and
Cardiology appointments.

The patient presents with one and a half weeks of left lower
extremity pain, redness, and rash bilaterally.  He reports
being seen by Dermatology without treatment.  He was given
prednisone for possible gout as well as Vicodin by his
primary care physician.  [**Name10 (NameIs) **] has had increased pain and can
hardly walk.  No fevers, chills, chest pain, shortness of
breath, or back pain.  The pain is the worst the patient has
ever experienced in his life, even to light touch.  He has
increased swelling of the left foot and no trauma.

In the Emergency Department, blood cultures were drawn.
Morphine sulfate 2 mg times four was given.  Oxacillin 2
grams times one was given.  The patient's pain went from
[**11-14**] to [**4-14**].  He also received intravenous fluids.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Type 1 diabetes mellitus (with recent diabetic
ketoacidosis).
 2.  Coronary artery disease.
(a)  Status post coronary artery bypass graft in [**2147**].
(b)  status post a non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction on
[**2166-11-11**].
(c)  A stress on [**2166-11-5**] showed no perfusion defects
and an ejection fraction of 40%.  Moderate new fixed defect.
 3.  Neuropathy.
 4.  Retinopathy.
 5.  Chronic renal insufficiency (with recent acute renal
failure; started hemodialysis on [**11-21**] to [**2166-11-26**]).  A renal ultrasound in [**2166-11-5**] was consistent
with chronic interstitial disease.
 6.  Status post carotid endarterectomy in [**2163-5-7**].
 7.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post
revascularization on the left times two and on the right
times three.
 8.  Hyperlipidemia.
 9.  History of glaucoma.
10.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
11.  Anemia; status post transfusions in [**2166-11-5**].
12.  Congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of
51% on echocardiogram in [**2166-11-5**] and 40% on
Persantine MIBI in [**2166-11-5**]).  Also with symmetric
left ventricular hypertrophy, 1 to 2+ mitral regurgitation,
as well as anteroseptal and apical hypokinesis.
13.  Hypertension.
14.  Magnetic resonance angiography of the kidneys in
[**2166-12-6**] with mild stenosis of the proximal renal
artery on the right.
15.  No history of gout or cellulitis.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Hydralazine 100 mg q.6h.
 4.  Imdur 30 mg by mouth three times per day.
 5.  Atenolol 75 mg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Glargine insulin 8 units subcutaneously at hour of
sleep.
 7.  Humalog sliding-scale.
 8.  Calcium carbonate.
 9.  Prednisone 20 mg by mouth once per day (recently
decreased); this was started two weeks ago for gout.
10.  Vicodin as needed.
11.  Lasix 40 mg by mouth twice per day (recently restarted).

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  The patient has a
23-pack-year history of tobacco; quit 10 years ago.  Social
alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history of coronary artery disease
in a brother.  Brother with a myocardial infarction at the
age of 40.  No diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient's temperature was 97.3 degrees
Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 58, his blood pressure was
initially 230/83 (going down to 177 systolic), his
respiratory rate was 18, and his oxygen saturation was 94% on
room air.  In general, the patient was a gentleman in no
acute distress.  The patient was diaphoretic.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat examination revealed the mucous
membranes were dry.  The lungs were clear to auscultation
with right basilar crackles; otherwise, clear.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm
with a systolic murmur.  The abdomen was soft and nontender.
Back examination revealed no tenderness.  Extremity
examination revealed the left foot with dorsal edema
(pitting), erythema on the left lateral around the medial
malleolus, some left lateral leg erythema.  There were
dopplerable pulses.  Motor strength was [**6-9**] in the left ankle
but with pain bilaterally.  The right foot with edema but
less than on the left.  Extensor hallucis longus weak
bilaterally.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed the patient's white blood cell count was 16.2, his
hematocrit was 32.9, with a mean cell volume of 94, and his
platelets were 273.  Differential with 94% neutrophils, 0%
bands, 2.6% lymphocytes, 3.1% monocytes, 0.3% eosinophils,
and 0.1% basophils.  The patient's sodium was 134, potassium
was 4.9, chloride was 101, bicarbonate was 24, blood urea
nitrogen was 130, creatinine was 3.3, and blood glucose was
260.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A left ankle film revealed
cortical irregularities along the medial malleolus and small
osseous fragment distal to the tip of the medial malleolus
and lateral to the medial malleolus.  The medial malleolus
fragment was linear and appeared less likely to be chronic in
nature.  There was no dislocation or destructive osseous
lesions.  There was soft tissue swelling noted around the
medial and lateral malleoli.  There was no evidence of
osteomyelitis, small fragments around the medial and lateral
malleoli were more consistent with an acute fracture,
although they both may be chronic.

A chest x-ray revealed mild-to-moderate congestive heart
failure and cardiomegaly.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient was admitted to the Medicine Service.  The following
is a summary of the [**Hospital 228**] hospital course by
issue/system.

Of note, this is a Discharge Summary through the date of
[**2167-1-12**].  A Discharge Summary Addendum will be added
from [**2167-1-12**] until the day of discharge summarizing
the remainder of the hospital course, medication, and
followup.

1.  FOOT ISSUES:  The patient was started on oxacillin for
treatment of his cellulitis.  Repeat ankle films were done on
[**12-29**], as the patient remained with an elevated white
blood cell count.  This revealed old inferior malleolar
medial evulsion injuries.  Possible small evulsion injury at
the anterolateral aspect of the tibia is unusual location in
the absence of point tenderness and likely little clinical
significance.

The patient remained afebrile throughout his hospitalization,
but given his foot infection on [**12-28**], ciprofloxacin
was added given his diabetes and prednisone was held.  The
patient was kept with leg elevation, nonweightbearing, and
multipoultice boot.

On [**12-29**], the patient's white blood cell count was
noted to rise slightly.  Therefore, oxacillin was
discontinued and vancomycin was started given the recent
hospitalizations and therefore at increased risk of having a
resistant bug.

Additionally, Rheumatology was consulted who felt that gout
was not suspected in this case and there  was no evidence for
septic arthritis.  Therefore, they did not recommend an
arthrocentesis but did recommend a magnetic resonance imaging
of the leg.

Additionally, the Vascular Service was consulted and
continued to follow the patient throughout the hospital
course.  They recommended arterial Duplex of the lower
extremities given the patient's history of bypass graft
bilaterally.  This showed widely patent left-sided
femoral-tibial bypass graft; however, it di