Admission Date:  [**2142-9-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2142-9-30**]

Date of Birth:   [**2076-11-10**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 65-year-old
Russian-speaking male with a past medical history significant
for coronary artery disease (status post coronary artery
bypass graft times two in [**2131**] with a saphenous vein graft to
third obtuse marginal and saphenous vein graft to the
posterior descending artery at that time).

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  He is also status post a failed
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty to his native
third obtuse marginal graft in [**2136**] as well as an FGF
infusion in [**2137**], since he was deemed a nonsurgical candidate
at that time due to his coronary anatomy.  He also has a past
medical history significant for hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus, hepatitis C, congestive heart failure, cervical
spondylosis, mild restrictive lung disease, prostate cancer
(status post transurethral resection of prostate), as well as
a history of a myocardial infarction 25 years ago.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  (Past surgical history significant
for)
1.  Coronary artery bypass graft times two in [**2131**].
2.  Transurethral resection of prostate in [**2136**].
3.  Appendectomy in [**2116**].
4.  Excision of left leg foreign body in [**2140-2-27**].
5.  Cataract surgery in [**2140**].

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:   The patient's medications on
admission were unknown; however, Norvasc, Vasotec,
metoprolol, Lipitor, Nitrostat, and Glucovance.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 65-year-old male who is status
post coronary artery bypass graft in [**2131**] who complains of
anginal symptoms on exertion as well as at rest for the past
three to four years, accompanied by shortness of breath which
has worsened over the past year.  The patient has been
followed by his cardiologist and internist who has been
treating his symptoms with medications.  He was admitted in
[**2141-3-28**] for shortness of breath and congestive heart
failure exacerbation, at which time he underwent a cardiac
echocardiogram which revealed severe 4+ mitral regurgitation.
Echocardiogram at that time also revealed an ejection
fraction of 30%.  The patient now presents for mitral valve
repair.

A cardiac catheterization was performed on ? [**2142-8-9**] which revealed 3-vessel coronary artery disease with the
left anterior descending artery with mild diffuse disease and
60% apical stenosis.  The left circumflex was totally
occluded.  The obtuse marginal filled via patent graft but
occluded proximally and distally to anastomosis.  The left
posterior descending artery filled via a patent saphenous
vein graft occluded distally.  The right coronary artery with
diffuse proximally with 70% stenosis, 3+ mitral
regurgitation, and an ejection fraction of 33%.

The patient underwent coronary artery bypass graft times two
with a saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery and
saphenous vein graft to the distal obtuse marginal as well as
mitral valve repair with a #26-cm [**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor Last Name **]
annuloplasty ring on [**2142-9-18**], total cardiopulmonary
bypass times 183 minutes.  Total cross-clamp time was 131
minutes.

The patient was transferred to the Cardiothoracic Intensive
Care Unit in stable condition on Milrinone and Levophed.

On postoperative day one, the patient was afebrile, being
A-paced at 95, still intubated and sedated.  His white blood
cell count was 11.7, hematocrit was 28.9, and a platelet
count of 157.  Sodium was 143, potassium was 4.1, blood urea
nitrogen was 16, creatinine was 1.1, and blood glucose was
207.  On an insulin drip, levofloxacin at 0.15, Milrinone at
0.125, and propofol.

The plan was to continue to A-pace the patient and to wean
the patient's Milrinone.  Also try to wean to extubate the
patient.

The patient was extubated at 9 o'clock a.m. on postoperative
day one with good arterial blood gases and without
complications.  The propofol was turned off.  The patient was
also placed on intravenous amiodarone.  He was still on
Levophed with his blood pressures running in the 110s to
120s/50s to 60s, and a heart rate of 70s to 80s with frequent
premature ventricular contractions, with a stable cardiac
output and index.

Later on that day, on postoperative day one, the patient's
alarm went off, and the patient was found to have a heart
rate in the 30s with a blood pressure of 50/20.  The patient
appeared vagal and the patient's heart rate came back
spontaneously.  Since the bradycardic episode that day, the
patient's SvO2 had been decreasing; now being V-paced and
started on Milrinone.  The patient's underlying rhythm was
complete heart block.  The patient's amiodarone was turned
off.

Cardiology was consulted to perform an urgent echocardiogram
to evaluate the patient's postoperative bradycardia and
hypotension which required pacing and increased pressors.
The echocardiogram revealed moderately depressed left
ventricular function.  No pericardial effusions.  No
tamponade, with the mitral valve intact.  At that time, the
pacing was paused which revealed a normal sinus rhythm in the
80s with long P-R intervals.

On postoperative day two, the patient was still on Milrinone
at 0.5 and insulin.  The patient was afebrile.  In sinus
rhythm at 87.  Vital signs were stable.  The examination
remainder unchanged.  White blood cell count was 16.6,
hematocrit was 29.8, and platelet count was 129.  Sodium was
143, potassium was 4, blood urea nitrogen was 20, and
creatinine was 1.4.

The plan was to try to wean the Milrinone and to continue to
monitor the patient's creatinine which had risen from 1.1 to
1.4.

On postoperative day three, the patient was still on
Milrinone at 0.125 with a low-grade temperature of 99.6;
otherwise, vital signs were stable.  The patient was
breathing at 97% on 5 liters nasal cannula.  The patient was
awake and moving all of his extremities.  White blood cell
count was 13.2, hematocrit was down to 26.6, and platelet
count was 119.  Creatinine was 1.3.

The plan was again to try to wean the Milrinone and to start
the patient on captopril and aspirin.

The Electrophysiology Service came by to see the patient on
postoperative day three for an episode of atrial fibrillation
with concomitant decreased cardiac index.  They recommended
cardioversion when appropriate and amiodarone 400 mg p.o.
t.i.d.  They also recommended heparin.

On postoperative day four, the patient with a low-grade
temperature of 99.8.  The patient was still in atrial
fibrillation at 106.  On an amiodarone drip, heparin drip,
insulin drip, and Milrinone at 0.5.  White blood cell count
was 14.5 and hematocrit was 27.7.  Creatinine was 1.2.   On
physical examination, the patient was awake and alert.
Otherwise, the examination was unchanged.

Electrophysiology Service came by to see the patient again on
postoperative day four; at which time they recommended to
change the intravenous amiodarone to oral amiodarone 400 mg
t.i.d. for one day and then 400 mg p.o. b.i.d., and to
continue the heparin with a goal PTT of 50 to 70, and to
check a 12-lead electrocardiogram (due to the telemetry strip
showing a long P-R interval).

On postoperative day five, the patient was still with a
low-grade temperature of 100.6.  On an amiodarone drip,
heparin drip, and Milrinone still at 0.5.  His physical
examination remained unchanged.  White blood cell count was
down to 9.8 with a hematocrit of 28.3.  Creatinine was down
to 1.1.

The plan was to continue to try to wean the Milrinone.

Electrophysiology Service came by and saw the patient again;
at which time they recommended to change to oral amiodarone
at 400 mg b.i.d. and to continue to anticoagulate the patient
for one month.

On postoperative day six, 24-hour event included an episode
of atrial fibrillation for which the patient was
cardioverted.  The patient also appeared confused; with this
confusion beginning the day prior, for which the patient was
administered Ativan since his confusion was accompanied with
agitation (Ativan with good effect).  Soft wrist restraints
