Admission Date:  [**2175-10-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2175-11-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2098-1-31**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a Polish-speaking
only 77-year-old woman presenting on [**2175-10-24**] with
progressively worsening right upper quadrant and epigastric
pain times one day and dark maroon stools times one day.

The patient was recently admitted from [**10-18**] to
[**10-19**] with lightheadedness and palpitations thought
secondary to over diuresis.  Her Lasix dose was decided, and
the patient was discharged to home.  Initially, the patient
did well.

Then, on [**10-23**], the patient started feeling
intermittent/progressive worsening of pain rated [**8-10**] with
right upper quadrant and epigastric pain radiating to the hip
and mid back.  No nausea or emesis.  Possibly had subjective
fevers and chills.  No diarrhea or constipation.  Her last
bowel movement was on [**10-23**] which the patient
describes as dark brown with maroon-colored stools and
positive dry maroon clots.  The patient denies chest pain or
lightheadedness.  Positive dysuria at end of urinary strain.
Positive orthopnea.  Positive mild shortness of breath;
however, the patient had not taken her albuterol meter-dosed
inhaler on [**10-23**] or [**10-24**].  The patient denies
cough, lightheadedness, or syncope.  She says that she has
never had this type of right upper quadrant or epigastric
pain before.  The patient denies hematuria or coffee-grounds
emesis.

In the Emergency Department, a nasogastric lavage was
negative.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease.
(a)  Status post non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.
(b)  Status post percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty and stent of the left anterior descending artery
and left circumflex in [**2172**].
 2.  Congestive heart failure (with diastolic and systolic
dysfunction).  [**2175-2-1**] echocardiogram revealed left
ventricular ejection fraction of 30% to 35%, no aortic
stenosis, 1+ aortic regurgitation, 1 to 2+ mitral
regurgitation, 2+ tricuspid regurgitation, and moderate
pulmonary hypertension.
 3.  Chronic atrial fibrillation; status post pacemaker for
bradycardia in [**2172**].
 4.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
 5.  Hypertension.
 6.  Hyperlipidemia.
 7.  History of cerebrovascular accident in [**2166**] with
left-sided weakness and numbness.
 8.  History of rectal bleeding.  [**2175-9-8**] colonoscopy
revealed a 1-cm polyp in the descending colon, history of
colon polyp, arteriovenous malformation in the transverse
colon.
 9.  Carpal tunnel syndrome.
10.  Urinary tract infections.
11.  Anemia with a baseline hematocrit of 33%.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Medications on admission
included)
 1.  Aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Albuterol.
 3.  Amiodarone 200 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Calcium carbonate 500 mg by mouth three times per day
with meals.
 5.  Atenolol 25 mg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Lasix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Imdur 30 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Colace 100 mg by mouth twice per day.
 9.  Famotidine 20 mg by mouth twice per day.
10.  Ambien 5 mg by mouth q.h.s.
11.  Tylenol No. 3 by mouth as needed.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history positive for coronary artery
disease without colon cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is Polish-speaking only.
History was obtained by English-speaking daughter.  [**Name (NI) **]
tobacco.  Occasional alcohol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   The patient was
initially admitted to the Medicine Service.  On admission,
physical examination revealed vital signs with a heart rate
of 92, the patient was afebrile, her blood pressure was
146/86, her respiratory rate was 16, and her oxygen
saturation was around 97% on room air.  Generally, the
patient was lying in bed in no acute distress.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat examination revealed jugular venous
distention at 8 cm.  The mucous membranes were dry.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  The lungs revealed
occlusion wheezing with trace crackles at the bases
bilaterally.  The abdomen was soft with mid epigastric and
right upper quadrant tenderness. No rebound or guarding.
Positive bowel sounds.  Extremity examination revealed no
lower extremity edema.  Dorsalis pedis pulses were 2+
bilaterally.  No petechiae.  Rectal examination revealed
gross blood (per Emergency Department).

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A colonoscopy on [**2175-9-8**]
showed a single nonbleeding 1-cm polyp in the descending
colon, status post polypectomy.

Electrocardiogram revealed atrial fibrillation at 88.

A computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis with
intravenous and by mouth contrast on admission showed no
liver, no splenic mass, or biliary dilatation, with increased
enhancement pericholecystic portion of liver.  The
gallbladder was distended without gallbladder wall edema.  At
least three calcified gallstones within the region of the
neck of the gallbladder.  The pancreas, spleen, and adrenals
were within normal limits.  Multiple scattered lymph nodes in
the celiac region; none of which appeared pathologic in size.

An abdominal ultrasound showed several gallstones and a small
amount of pericholecystic fluid, and equivocal gallbladder
edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratory
values on admission revealed her white blood cell count was
9.4, her hematocrit was 32.1, and her platelets were 195.
Chemistry-7 revealed her sodium was 139, potassium was 4.1,
chloride was 104, bicarbonate was 27, blood urea nitrogen was
23, creatinine was 0.9, and blood glucose was 109.
Coagulations revealed her prothrombin time was 16, her
partial thromboplastin time was 29.8, and her INR was 1.7.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The computed tomography
of the abdomen was reviewed by Radiology and linear calcified
foreign bodies were deemed to be outside the stomach and in
the left lobe of the liver.  The patient's rectal bleeding
was thought to be due to lower gastrointestinal bleeding.
The patient was hemodynamically stable, however, with
negative a nasogastric lavage.

General Surgery was consulted on admission, and ultrasound
and computed tomography were reviewed.  The patient continued
to have epigastric pain and was eventually taken to the
operating room on [**10-25**] for open cholecystectomy for
possible peritonitis because the patient had persistent right
upper quadrant peritoneal signs with increased left upper
quadrant tenderness and a temperature to 101 degrees
Fahrenheit.

On [**2175-10-25**], there was no hemodynamic instability
and no changes in mental status with good urine output, but
there was surgical concern that the patient may have
gangrenous cholecystitis.  Given her comorbidities, it was
deemed that the operative window was closing and an open
cholecystectomy was indicated urgently.

The patient did well postoperatively after an open
cholecystectomy for peritonitis and was transferred Surgical
Intensive Care Unit intubated, on morphine as needed, insulin
sliding-scale, Protonix, Lopressor, vancomycin, Flagyl,
Levaquin, Tylenol, Combivent, amiodarone, and propofol drips.
The patient was weaned and extubated on [**2175-10-27**].

The patient was reintubated overnight [**10-27**], and
weaned to extubate on postoperative day three (on [**10-28**]).  The patient continued to do well.  Vancomycin was
discontinued on postoperative day four, and the Swan-Ganz
catheter and arterial line were both discontinued on
postoperative day four.  The patient was hemodynamically
stable and was out of bed.

The patient was transferred to the floor on postoperative day
five and continued to be on the medications of atenolol,
Roxicet, Coumadin, Ambien, Flagyl, levofloxacin, Pepcid,
albuterol, Atrovent, amiodarone, subcutaneous heparin, and
insulin sliding-scale.  The patient was being seen by
Physical Therapy and was deemed too weak to go home; however,
the patient was screened by a rehabilitation center and was
accepted at [**Hospital6 6296**] Center.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:   The patient was discharged to
rehabilitation 