Admission Date:  [**2154-6-15**]     Discharge Date:  [**2154-6-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2107-11-13**]     Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Pleuritic chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 46 year old female
with unremarkable past medical history who presents to the
Emergency Department with acute onset of six out of ten
pleuritic chest pain.  The patient was driving at onset.  She
denies any palpitations or diaphoresis though the pain
radiated above shoulders.  The pain worsened with deep breath
but no nausea, vomiting, fever, chills, and also improved by
leaning forward, no leg swelling, no recent travel, no prior
episodes.  The pain was relieved with Morphine and Ativan in
the Emergency Department.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Over the counter decongestant.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies alcohol or intravenous
drug use or tobacco.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs revealed temperature of
98.4, pulse 95, blood pressure 122/74, respiratory rate 16,
oxygen saturation 100% in room air.  In general, moderate
discomfort.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination -
The pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Lungs are
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  The heart revealed normal
S1 and S2, regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or
gallops.  The abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended, no
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities - no cyanosis, clubbing or
edema.  Neurologically, the patient is alert and oriented
times three.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother with history of coronary artery
disease at early age.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 7.5, hematocrit
38.8, platelet count 318,000.  Sodium 142, potassium 4.8,
chloride 104, bicarbonate 30, blood urea nitrogen 15,
creatinine 0.8, glucose 140.  CK 88.  Troponin less than 0.1.

Chest x-ray showed no evidence of pneumonia or congestive
heart failure.  Moderate cardiomegaly.  Electrocardiogram
showed normal sinus rhythm at 89 beats per minute.
Borderline left axis, normal intervals, low voltage across
limb leads and precordium.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular - The patient underwent evaluation by
echocardiogram which demonstrated large to moderate
pericardial effusion with no evidence of tamponade.  The
patient began treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs, and viral serologies were sent.  The patient underwent
pericardiocentesis for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes
and 600cc of serosanguinous fluid was drained.  Ejection
fraction was 60%.  Normal left ventricle and right ventricle
wall motion.  The patient was transferred to Cardiac Care
Unit for close pericardiocentesis monitoring.  The patient's
Intensive Care Unit course was notable for some postprocedure
bradycardia treated with Atropine.  The patient had second
chest tube removed [**2154-6-23**], and repeat echocardiogram
performed [**2154-6-24**], with unchanged pericardial effusion,
small.  The patient will follow-up with cardiologist, Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **], in two weeks after discharge.  Her biopsy
demonstrated fibrinous pericarditis with hemosiderin.  Viral
studies available at the time of discharge demonstrated Lyme
negative, monospot negative.  The patient's cytology was
negative for malignant cells and age appropriate cancer
screen unremarkable.

2.  Infectious disease - The patient had serologies pending
at the time of discharge including HIV viral load, EBV, Parvo
virus B-19, TBPCR, toxoplasma antibodies and ASO titer.  The
patient will follow-up with infectious disease clinic in
regards to possible viral etiology.  The patient will
complete a ten day course of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
medication, Motrin 800 mg three times a day for treatment of
pericarditis/pain.  The patient instructed to return
immediately if she experiences any chest pain, shortness of
breath or fevers.

3.  Endocrine - The patient noted to have left lower lobe
thyroid nodule with increased vascularity on CTA scan.  The
patient underwent further evaluation with ultrasound which
again noted the same nodule with increased vascularity.  TSH
was low normal at 0.37 with normal limit free T4.  The
patient underwent evaluation by the endocrine consultation
team who recommended further evaluation of her nodule in the
thyroid nodule clinic.  Appointment was scheduled for
[**2154-8-8**], at 11:00 a.m.

4.  Anemia - The patient with a history of chronic iron
deficiency anemia and laboratories here demonstrated a
hematocrit of 24.0 to 31.0.  MCV was 88.  Iron 20, TIBC 342.
She will continue on iron sulfate supplement.  Cervical
adenopathy noted on physical examination with three small
less than 1.0 centimeter fibrous lymph nodes which the
patient reports unchanged over the past one year.  She has a
history of chronic sinus infection.  She underwent evaluation
with sinus CT which demonstrated no acute sinusitis.  It did
demonstrate calcification of the IPA.  The patient will
follow with her primary care physician, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 28616**] in
regards to this matter.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Iron Sulfate 325 mg p.o. once daily.
2.  Senna two tablets p.r.n.
3.  Motrin 800 mg p.o. three times a day.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Pericardial effusion.
2.  Anemia.
3.  Thyroid nodule.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 312**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 314**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7485**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2154-6-24**]  18:32
T:  [**2154-7-2**]  20:45
JOB#:  [**Job Number 31295**]
