Admission Date:  [**2122-2-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2122-2-17**]


Service:  CCU/C MED

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 78-year-old male
with a history of ischemic cardiomyopathy, coronary artery
disease, status post coronary artery bypass graft, DDD pacer,
who was recently admitted to the [**Hospital1 **]
Hospital in [**Month (only) 1096**] of this year for a milrinone holiday and
pacer revision, who has been managing his congestive heart
failure at home with close follow-up in the Congestive Heart
Failure Clinic.  Although, seven days prior to admission,
patient has an increasingly weak feeling, abdominal
pain/angina.  He was seen in clinic with a decrease in his
weight but an increase in his BUN and creatinine.
Accordingly, his Lasix and Zestril were held, but the patient
continued to feel poorly.  On the morning of presentation, he
had increasing shortness of breath with chest pain, which was
relieved with two sublingual nitroglycerins.  He called Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 13584**] and subsequently presented to the Emergency
Department.  He was initially evaluated and found to be
hemodynamically stable.  His review of systems is otherwise
benign.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hyperlipidemia.
2.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation on amiodarone.
3.  Status post DDD pacer modified on [**12/2121**].
4.  Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery
    bypass graft in [**2102**] with an saphenous vein graft to left
    anterior descending and saphenous vein graft to D1,
    saphenous vein graft to OM1 and an saphenous vein graft
    to right coronary artery, status post a redo coronary
    artery bypass graft in [**2121-3-26**] with left internal
    mammary artery to the left anterior descending and
    saphenous vein graft to D1 and an saphenous vein graft to
    the PDA.  At that time, he also had porcine MVR placed.
    Catheterization done [**11/2121**] showed a totally occluded left
    internal mammary artery.  At that time he underwent
    angioplasty of the old saphenous vein graft to the left
    anterior descending.  Echocardiogram performed in
    [**Month (only) 1096**] of this year showed an ejection fraction of less
    than 20%, four chamber dilation, and pulmonary
    hypertension, approximately 20-33 mmHg.

MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg po q.d., Digoxin 0.125 q.
Monday, Wednesday and Friday, Zestril 5 q.d., Lasix 80 q.a.m.
and 20 q.p.m., Aldactone, amiodarone 100 q.d., Coreg 1.6
b.i.d., Lipitor dose unknown.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a retired architect.  He is a
nondrinker and smoker.

BRIEF PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature not recorded.  Pulse
70.  Blood pressure 70-113/34-50.  Respirations 15-20,
saturating 96-100% on room air.  General, patient was
pleasant older male lying in bed in no apparent distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat, normocephalic, atraumatic,
mucous membranes moist.  Neck supple without lymphadenopathy.
Jugular venous distention was approximately 10 cm.
Cardiovascularly, he had a regular rate, normal S1, S2 and
audible S3.  Pulmonary, he had good air movement, no
crackles, although he had scattered expiratory wheezes.
Abdomen soft, mildly obese, no hepatosplenomegaly.
Extremities, his feet were warm without edema.  There was 1+
dorsalis pedis on the left, trace palpable dorsalis pedis on
the right.  Neurologically, patient was alert and oriented
times three.

LABORATORIES ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell 4.6,
hematocrit 36.2, platelets 143,000.  SMA-7, sodium 137,
potassium 6.7, repeat was 6.0, chloride 97, bicarbonate 27,
BUN 101, creatinine 3, glucose 121, PT INR 1.2, PTT 26.4.  CK
#1 54, troponin 2.4, digoxin level 1.1, ALT 18, AST 142 in a
hemolyzed sample, phosphorus 81, total bilirubin 0.5.

Chest x-ray was consistent with cardiomegaly.

Electrocardiogram was V paced, 100%.

BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted initially to
the Intensive Care Unit Service for decompensated stage IV
congestive heart failure.  He had a pulmonary artery catheter
placed on the evening of hospital day number one which
revealed PA pressures of 51/19 with a mean of 30, CVP of 30,
cardiac output of 4.2 and an index of 2.59, an SVR of 630.
Patient was loaded on milrinone and started on a milrinone
drip to maximize his cardiac output as well as improve his
renal failure.  In addition, he was maintained on his
outpatient of digoxin, Zestril, Lasix, amiodarone and
Coreg.  Given his hyperkalemia on presentation, his Aldactone
was held.

Patient continued on milrinone drip with slow improvement in
his cardiac output index, as well as improvement in his renal
failure throughout his first four hospital days, however, his
milrinone course was somewhat complicated by recurrent
episodes of angina which were always relieved with
nitroglycerin.  Given these recurrent episodes and the
patient's known complicated cardiac anatomy, he had
catheterization performed on the morning of hospital day
number three at which time an attempt was made to
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty one of the
patient's occluded saphenous vein grafts without success.
The patient was transferred back to the Intensive Care Unit
Service following the cardiac catheterization and had
milrinone restarted.  Despite the attempt to catheterize,
patient continued to have episodes of chest pain even after
the dose of milrinone was slowly weaned.

He had repeat cardiac catheterization performed on the
morning of hospital day number seven at which time
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty performed on
his saphenous vein graft to D1 which was successful.
Following his catheterization, patient was again transferred
back to the Intensive Care Unit Service where his milrinone
was weaned off.  At the same time, he slowly had his Coreg
and Zestril doses titrated as tolerated.  After the patient
remained stable times 24 hours, he was transferred to the 11
Riseman [**Hospital6 13568**] where he was monitored times two days.
He was subsequently discharged to home.  He was able to
ambulate at his usual level.  Incidentally, throughout his
course, the patient developed a cough significant for green
sputum.  Chest x-rays were performed and were not revealing
for a pneumonia, however, given the patient's significant
morbidity at baseline, he was treated with seven days of
Levaquin.  Patient was discharged to home on the [**2-16**] with plans to follow-up with Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] in Heart
Failure Clinic.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 420**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 421**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 422**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 17101**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2122-4-27**]  14:31
T:  [**2122-4-27**]  14:31
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
