Admission Date:  [**2106-12-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2106-12-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2045-5-19**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CT Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61 year old
female with a long history of mitral valve prolapse.  Over
the last several months, she has experienced increased
shortness of breath and fatigue.  Echocardiogram had shown
progression of her mitral regurgitation at 3+ to 4+ with a
left ventricular ejection fraction of approximately 25%.
Cardiac catheterization revealed nonobstructive coronary
artery disease.  Elevated filling pressures with a prominent
V wave are consistent with severe mitral regurgitation as
seen by cardiac catheterization.

The patient was counseled on the risks and benefits and,
therefore, agreed to have her mitral valve repaired with a
bioprosthetic mitral valve.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Pyelonephritis.  2.  Degenerative
joint disease.  3.  Hypertension.  4.  Fibromyalgia.  5.
Chronic renal insufficiency.  6.  Hiatal hernia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  1.  Breast biopsy.  2.  Elbow
surgery.  3.  Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy in the past.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Hydralazine, Plaquenil, Premarin,
desipramine, multivitamins, Darvocet, Zantac and Ativan.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission chest x-ray was notable for
bilateral pleural effusions.  Admission white blood cell
count was 6, hematocrit 39 and platelet count 279,000.
Urinalysis was unremarkable.  Admission sodium was 141,
potassium 3.9, chloride 99, bicarbonate 23, BUN 27,
creatinine 1.7, prothrombin time 12.8, and partial
thromboplastin time 25.3.

HO[**Last Name (STitle) **] COURSE:  The patient was taken to the Operating Room
by Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] on [**2106-12-6**], where she underwent
a thoracic approach with a mitral valve repair using an
annuloplasty band prosthesis, serial number [**Serial Number 104594**], model
number 4600, [**Doctor Last Name **] Life Sciences valve.

Postoperatively, the patient remained intubated and was sent
to the CSRU, where she was being maintained on Levophed,
milrinone and propofol secondary to her labile intraoperative
pressures and labile postoperative pressures.

The patient remained intubated overnight.  The next morning
she was transfused three units to keep her hematocrit above
26 postoperatively.  Her hematocrit was 35 on postoperative
day number one.  She was noted to have pulmonary artery
pressures of 33/29 and cardiac output of 2.66 and index of
1.8.  She was still being maintained with Levophed and
milrinone and Neo-Synephrine as well as a propofol drip for
sedation.  The plan on postoperative day number one was to
wean support as long as she was hemodynamically stable.

The patient's hematocrit was followed serial and she was
transfused to maintain a hematocrit greater than 30.  Her
milrinone was weaned as tolerated.  Given her labile
pressures postoperatively, she did receive an echocardiogram
on [**2106-12-7**], which showed right ventricular failure
and anterior wall hypokinesis.  She was maintained with an
intra-aortic balloon pump from [**2106-12-7**] into
[**2106-12-8**], as well as pressors.  Her increasing
pressor requirement and balloon pump requirement was
concerning, however, the patient did not sour clinically.

Tube feeds were started because the patient was unable to be
extubated and did not tolerate this hemodynamically.  Her
platelet count was noted to drop down to 94,000 on
postoperative day number two.  Her BUN and creatinine were 19
and 1.2, down from the admission of 1.7.  Her coagulation
profile had a prothrombin time and INR of 14 and 1.4 and
partial thromboplastin time of 34 with an ionized calcium of
1.3.

The patient failed to wean to extubate until [**2106-12-9**].  Her follow-up platelet count was noted to be 52,000
and it was thought that a medication such as Zantac or
heparin or the balloon-pump, etc, or an indwelling catheter,
such as the Swan-Ganz catheter, may be contributing to her
thrombocytopenia.  Therefore, all of the potentially inciting
medications were discontinued.  Her balloon-pump was
discontinued after five packs of platelets were transfused.
A HIT panel was sent for analysis that ultimately returned as
positive.

By postoperative day number three, the patient was
neurologically stable and alert.  She was on Percocet for
pain.  A chest x-ray showed large bilateral effusions.  Her
milrinone and hydralazine were discontinued and she was
started on Lopressor.  Nipride was weaned as tolerated.  She
was given albumin and Lasix as well.  She was started on a
diet with supplements.

By postoperative day number four, the patient was noted to be
somewhat confused and agitated.  It was felt to be secondary
to mild Intensive Care Unit psychosis.  She was not hypoxic
or severely volume depleted in any way or over-medicated.
The patient was discharged to the floor with a sitter.  She
was started on hydralazine 10 mg every six hours as well as
aspirin.  Her Swan-Ganz catheter was moved to central venous
pressure.

On postoperative day number five, the Cordis was removed and
the patient had a peripheral intravenous line placed.  Her
pacing wires were removed.  Physical therapy and
rehabilitation screening began.  The patient was tolerating a
diet and ambulating in the hallway.  Her pain was being
controlled.  She was voiding spontaneously and reported a
bowel movement.  The chest tube, however, continued to have
moderate to high output and was therefore maintained until
postoperative day number eight, when it was discontinued.  A
follow-up chest x-ray showed bilateral pleural effusions with
no pneumothorax.  The effusions were stable, if not improved.

Ultimately, the patient was slated for discharge to a
rehabilitation facility the following day, on postoperative
day number nine.  She is stable and doing well.  Her
discharge examination is noted for a stable sternum with
clean, dry and intact wound with Steri-Strips.  She has a
dressing over the superior abdomen, the site of her previous
wire and chest tube insertion sites, which can be removed two
days after discharge.  The patient's heart is regular.  She
has decreased breath sounds at the bases bilaterally, no
crackles.  Abdomen is benign.  Extremities are warm and well
perfused with normal pulses.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient is being discharged to a
cardiac rehabilitation facility.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
History of mitral valve prolapse with severe mitral
regurgitation and left ventricular ejection fraction of 30%,
status post mitral valve repair #26 CE rim, complicated by
postoperative right ventricular failure and anterior wall
hypokinesis requiring intra-aortic balloon pump
resuscitation; currently, patient is stable, afebrile and
appropriate for discharge to a rehabilitation facility.




                            [**Doctor Last Name 412**] [**Last Name (Prefixes) 413**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 414**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3204**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2106-12-14**]  11:46
T:  [**2106-12-14**]  12:13
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
