Admission Date:  [**2122-11-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2122-11-17**]


Service:  Gold General Surgery

PRINCIPAL CARE PROVIDER:  [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) **] [**Name (STitle) 51525**], phone
number is [**Telephone/Fax (1) 51526**].

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  This is an elective operation for low
anterior resection, colostomy closure, incisional hernia
repair x2 with component separation.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 79-year-old woman
with a history of hypertension, who three years ago underwent
an emergency operation for a perforated diverticulitis
resulting in an end colostomy and Hartmann's pouch.  She was
interested in having her colostomy closed as well as having
two incisional hernias repair, one at the site of her midline
incision, and one at the site of her left lower quadrant
around her colostomy.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to
the operating room as planned on [**2122-11-2**] for
colostomy closure, incisional hernia repair x2 with component
separation.  The operation was without any complications.

On postoperative day 0, the patient had issues with low urine
output and received multiple fluid boluses to maintain
adequate urine output.  Additionally, it was noted that the
patient had intraoperative bradycardia as well as ectopy,
cardiac laboratories were sent and found to be within normal
limits.  Her CKs were elevated postsurgically, but she had a
normal MB fraction and troponin.  An epidural catheter was
left in place, the patient had two JPs draining
serosanguinous fluid, and she left the OR and PACU, and was
transferred to the floor requiring O2 at 6 liters nasal
cannula.

A review of her in's and out's on the first day of her
hospital course showed that she received 5.2 liters in the
OR, PACU, and floor, and put out 510 cc of urine output.  On
postoperative day #1, urine culture was sent and later
revealed Klebsiella that was pansensitive, for which she was
started on levofloxacin.  That night, the night float
resident was called as the patient was found to be
desaturating to 89% on 5 liters nasal cannula, and at this
time, she was also complaining of shortness of breath and
some persistent abdominal pain.  An arterial blood gas was
obtained revealing a pH of 7.31, pCO2 of 53, pO2 of 50,
bicarb of 26, and base deficit of -1.  The chest x-ray
revealed a right pleural effusion as well as a CHF-like
pattern.

Based on this blood gas and the patient's deteriorating
respiratory status, she was transferred to the ICU for closer
monitoring, she was given 20 mg of IV Lasix for diuresis, and
she was put on a nonrebreather and found to be sating
improved at 96%.  An art line was placed in the ICU.

On postoperative day #2, repeat blood gas showed a pH of
7.33, pCO2 of 54, pO2 of 53, and a bicarb of 30 on 70% O2.
Later that day she was found once again to be tachypneic with
desats to 85% on 100% nonrebreather as well as hypertensive
to the 180s systolic.  The decision was made to intubate the
patient in the ICU, which was accomplished without
difficulty.  A right internal jugular central venous line was
placed.  At this time, the patient was bronched revealing a
large amount of thick secretions that were sent for culture
later revealing a moderate amount of yeast.

Her epidural was continued at this time, and she was
continued to be diuresed.  A search for the cause of her
desaturations was made, and an echocardiogram was obtained
revealing an abnormality of the septal motion and pattern of
the right ventricle as well as mild left atrial dilatation,
but was otherwise normal revealing normal left ventricular
function with an EF greater than 55%.

A CT angiogram was performed that was negative for pulmonary
embolus, however, was significant for opacification
bilaterally of her lower lobes as well as right upper lobe
consolidation that was consistent with a pneumonia.

The patient, on postoperative day three, was switched from
Levaquin to Zosyn to cover her UTI and pneumonia.  On
postoperative day three, she was noted to have several PAC's
with ectopy on the monitor with an EKG revealing atrial
fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response, as well as a
left bundle branch block.  She was rate controlled on
Lopressor and diltiazem with adequate response.

On postoperative day #4, the results from the bronchial
washings came back and the patient was started on
fluconazole.  At this time, her epidural was D/C'd, and a
nasogastric tube was inserted to start tube feeds.

On postoperative day six, the patient continued to have
ectopy overnight and had failed CPAP, and therefore remained
intubated.  However, she was tolerating tube feeds well.  A
cardiac consultation was obtained on the basis of her ectopy
and their assessment revealed that her rhythm was consistent
with episodes of atrial fibrillation with superimposed rate
dependent left bundle branch block, with no evidence of
ventricular tachycardia.  They recommended to continue her
beta blockade at a reduced dosage of 5 mg IV q.4h.
Cardiology did not recommend Coumadin at this time.  Patient
was additionally transfused 1 unit of packed red blood cells
for a hematocrit of 27.5 which improved to 30.8 status post
transfusion.  That night, the patient spiked to a temperature
of 101.0, however, a workup of blood cultures, urine
cultures, and changing the central venous line was negative.

On postoperative day #7, pulmonary toilet was continued.
Tube feeds were continued at goal and the patient was
continued to diurese on Lasix.  Her ventilator parameters
were weaned on postoperative day eight, and she continued to
have white secretions from her tube, but was otherwise
tolerating intubation well and mouthing words to her family.
There were no new events on postoperative days nine or 10.

On postoperative day 11, the patient was successfully
extubated, and at this time, was also evaluated by Physical
Therapy.  Her midline wound was found to be tender, hard, as
well as mildly erythematous stretch of 2.5 cm.  Staples were
removed revealing a midline hematoma, but did not require
drainage.  The wound was then packed with wet-to-dry
dressings that were changed on a t.i.d. basis.

On postoperative day #12, the patient was transferred to the
floor after a chest x-ray revealed improved right upper lobe
aeration and improving consolidation in the lower lobes, but
significant for persistent bibasilar consolidations.  The
patient did tolerate a regular diet and was transferred to
the floor on 95% 4 liters nasal cannula.  Her nasogastric
tube was D/C'd at this time.

On postoperative day 13, the patient's p.o. intake increased.
She was ambulating well with Physical Therapy and her Foley
was D/C'd that night.  The wound care was continued
wet-to-dry dressings t.i.d.

On postoperative day 14, Physical Therapy continued to
ambulate the patient and she was found to be sating
adequately at 92% on room air while ambulating and she was
determined to be safe for home disposition.  Her right
internal jugular veins central venous line was D/C'd at this
time, and the patient was encouraged to increase her p.o.
intake.  She was sent home this day on postoperative day 14
with services for wet-to-dry dressing changes b.i.d., home
Physical Therapy, and checks of her O2 saturation by visiting
nurses.  Her principal care provider was called and notified
that we had started her on albuterol, Atrovent treatment
which were improving her lung examination, and he agreed with
sending her home on a lower dose of p.o. metoprolol 12.5
t.i.d. for heart function.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Home with services.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4-6h. prn pain.
2. Atrovent inhaler 18 mcg two puffs q.i.d. for two weeks.
3. Albuterol MDI 90 mcg container:  two puffs q.4-6h. prn
shortness of breath or wheezing.
4. Nystatin swish and swallow 5 cc orally q.i.d.
5. Famotidine 20 mg one tablet p.o. b.i.d.
6. Metoprolol 50 mg tablet:  [**2-7**] of a tablet p.o. b.i.d.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  Resume a regular diet.  Activity:
No heavy lifting or straining for two weeks until the midline
abdominal wound heals.  The patient wa