Admission Date:  [**2170-10-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2170-10-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2105-4-22**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Hospital1 212**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   Mr. [**Known lastname **] is a 65-year-old
man with a history of coronary artery disease, peripheral
vascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and
hypertension, who presented to [**Hospital3 3583**] with
increasing shortness of breath.  He had recently been
admitted to the same hospital with pneumonia complicated by
respiratory failure requiring intubation, and had been
discharged a couple of weeks prior.  After discharge, he had
mild baseline dyspnea which began to worsen until he
developed shortness of breath with minimal exertion.  He
denied fevers and cough, but reported occasional chills.  He
denied nausea, vomiting, or chest pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   Coronary artery disease status post
myocardial infarction, peripheral vascular disease status
post bilateral lower extremity revascularization, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic renal insufficiency
with a baseline creatinine of 2.0, and hypertension.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Norvasc 10 mg once a day, minoxidil 2.5
mg three times a day, Clonidine .1 mg three times a day,
aspirin 81 mg once a day.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   Lives with wife at home.  50 year smoking
history, quit recently.

SUMMARY OF OUTSIDE HOSPITAL COURSE:  Upon presentation to
[**Hospital3 3583**], Mr. [**Known lastname **] was found to have wheezing on
examination.  His oxygen saturations were 97% on room air.  A
chest x-ray showed a right upper lobe pneumonia.  He was
started on levofloxacin, Solu-Medrol, and nebulizer
treatments.  His blood pressure on admission was 240/133, and
this was treated aggressively.  He was continued on his usual
regimen of minoxidil and Clonidine.  In addition, he was
given Verapamil sustained release 240 mg once a day,
Terazosin 2 mg once a day, and Cozaar 50 mg once a day.  With
this regimen, his blood pressure dropped to as low as 107/43.
The rapidity of this decline is unknown.

After his blood pressure fell to this level, his Verapamil
and Cozaar were held, however, the Clonidine, minoxidil and
Terazosin were continued.  His creatinine began rising to a
maximum of 6.1 at the time of discharge from [**Hospital3 3583**].
An MRA there showed an atrophic right kidney, a tiny and
stenosed right renal artery, and a high-grade stenosis at the
origin of the left renal artery.  By the time of discharge,
the patient was anuric and making minimal urine.  Quantities
were not specified in outside hospital records.

During his hospitalization at [**Hospital3 3583**], he also
developed lower extremity weakness, which initially began on
the right side but progressed to bilateral involvement.
These symptoms were attributed at first to anxiety, but
continued to worsen, and he was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for further workup and neurologic
imaging.

At the time of transfer, he had a chief complaint of
bilateral leg weakness and moderate shortness of breath.  He
denied chest pain, fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, abdominal pain, dizziness or lightheadedness.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   Temperature 98.4, blood pressure
98/58, heart rate 81, respirations 22, oxygen saturation 96%
on 2 liters.  In general, he was in no apparent distress,
alert and oriented x 3.  His pupils were equally round and
reactive to light, extraocular movements intact, oropharynx
with small white exudate on uvula, otherwise clear.  Lungs:
Crackles at the right base, good air movement.  Cardiac:
Regular rate and rhythm, I/VI systolic murmur at the upper
sternal borders, no gallops or rubs.  Abdomen:  Soft,
slightly distended, nontender, no hepatosplenomegaly, no
masses, normal active bowel sounds, guaiac negative.
Extremities:  No edema, 1+ distal pulses bilaterally.
Neurological examination:  Fluent speech, normal
comprehension, cranial nerves II through XII intact.  Upper
extremities:  5/5 strength bilaterally, with 2+ reflexes, no
pronator drift.  The patient was unable to feel his Foley
catheter, positive rectal tone.  Lower extremities:  0/5
strength bilaterally, areflexic, toes equivocal.  T11-12
pinprick and temperature level, intact proprioception and
light touch.

LABORATORY DATA:   White count 9, hematocrit 23.6, platelets
290.  Sodium 131, potassium 6.2, chloride 96, bicarbonate 17,
BUN 86, creatinine 6.9, glucose 156, anion gap 24.  CK 250,
CK/MB 14, MB index 5.6, troponin 5.6.  Electrocardiogram
showed ST depressions in I, AVL, V4 through V6, which were
new compared with an electrocardiogram from the outside
hospital.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Neurology:  Bilateral leg weakness.  An MRI of the head
was obtained to rule out watershed infarcts.  The MRI was
negative for acute process.  A MRI of the whole spine was
obtained to rule out compression or infarct.  The study was
negative, but limited due to technical aspects.  Neurology
was consulted, and it was felt that the patient's symptoms
were most consistent with an anterior spinal artery
distribution and that his hypotensive episode had
precipitated a spinal infarct resulting in paraplegia, with
poor prognosis for any type of meaningful recovery.  He was
started on aspirin and Plavix after bleeding was ruled out by
imaging studies.

2.  Renal:  Bilateral renal artery stenosis.  The patient's
blood pressure was low (100/60) on admission, and he was in
anuric renal failure at the time of presentation, with an
anion gap acidosis and hyperkalemia.  The Renal team was
notified and did not feel that dialysis was indicated.  He
was treated accordingly for his hyperkalemia, and given
bicarbonate.

3.  Pulmonary:  He was continued on levofloxacin for the
right upper lobe pneumonia, and continued on nebulizers and
oral steroids for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
exacerbation.

4.  Cardiovascular:  Hypotension.  His blood pressure
medications were held.  He was given calcium gluconate in an
attempt to reverse the effects of Verapamil received at the
outside hospital.

5.  Hematology:  Decreased hematocrit.  The patient received
transfusions of packed red blood cells given his history of
coronary artery disease and hematocrit of 23.6.

ASSESSMENT:   It was felt that the patient had multiple
iatrogenic problems due to hypotension secondary to
aggressive treatment of high blood pressure at the outside
hospital.  These included spinal infarct, acute anuric renal
failure, demand cardiac ischemia.  Per the patient, his
baseline blood pressure was around 180 and, given his
relative hypotension at the time of admission, it was felt
that his blood pressure needed to be raised in order to
improve perfusion.

He was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit and received
intravenous fluids with careful monitoring, as well as
Levophed.  During his Medical Intensive Care Unit course, his
blood pressure came back to the 150s, and he began to make
urine.  His neurological examination remained unchanged.  His
cardiac enzymes remained within normal limits with a peak MB
index of 5.6.  These elevations were attributed to demand
ischemia vs. small myocardial infarction.  His CK did rise to
13,000, and this was attributed to his neuromuscular
injuries.

He was transferred back to the floor, where he continued to
do well from a renal standpoint.  His creatinine trended down
from a maximum of 8.3 to close to baseline by the time of
discharge.  On [**10-28**], his creatinine was 2.4.  His
baseline creatinine is 2.0.

His neurological examination at the time of discharge remains
unchanged.  He remains paraplegic and with 0/ strength in his
lower extremities.  He and his family are both aware of the
poor prognosis for recovery of neurological function, and
they are also aware of the etiology of his recent medical
complications.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharged to spinal rehabilitation unit.

DISCHARGE TREATMENT:
1.  Goal blood pressure 150 to 160.  The patient's
hypertension should not be aggressively treated below 150, as
he has shown intolerance of low blood pressure.  He is
currently on Lopressor 25 mg twice a day and lasix 20 mg once
a day, a