Admission Date: [**2176-8-22**]        Discharge Date: [**2176-9-6**]


Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left hallux infection and left foot pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 82 year-old gentleman
who presented to our emergency room with a left hallux
infection. The patient was sent to us by his podiatrist to be
admitted to the vascular surgery for evaluation. The
patient's toe changes are secondary to nail clipping which
resulted in gangrenous changes which have progressed over the
last two to three months.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Illnesses include type 2 diabetes with
retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy. History of
hypertension. History of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
History of congestive heart failure with ejection fraction of
45%. History of coronary artery disease, status post coronary
artery bypass graft in [**2169**]. History of chronic renal
insufficiency. History of cataracts. History of glaucoma.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Include Lipitor 10 mg q.d.,
lisinopril/hydrochlorothiazide 20/25 tablet q.d., aspirin 325
mg q.d., Avandia 4 mg q.d., Glucophage 500 mg b.i.d., Lasix
20 mg q Monday and Friday, Toprol XL 25 mg q.d., Procardia XL
30 mg q.d., insulin 70-30 units 25 units q.A.M. and 10 units
q dinner.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Cholecystectomy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient is married, is Russian speaking.
Denies alcohol or smoking.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs: 97.5, 60, 20, blood
pressure 114/50, O2 saturation 98% on room air. General
appearance: An elderly male in no acute distress. Head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat examination is unremarkable. Lungs are
clear to auscultation bilaterally. Heart is a regular rate
and rhythm without rub, rub or gallop. Abdominal examination
is unremarkable. Extremity examination shows warm extremities
with two dry gangrenous lesions on the left hallux without
erythema or drainage. Neurologic examination is intact,
nonfocal, oriented x3. Pulse examination shows palpable
femorals bilaterally, Dopplerable popliteal artery pulses
bilaterally. The dorsalis pedis on the left is monophasic
with a biphasic posterior tibial signal. On the right the
dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial are monophasic signals
only.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially evaluated in the
emergency room. His white count was 9.2, hematocrit 35.3, BUN
46, creatinine 1.4. Chest x-ray was obtained which was
negative for congestive heart failure and pneumonia.
Electrocardiogram was a sinus rhythm bradycardic. No wound
culture was obtained at the time of the patient's assessment
in the emergency room but urine cultures and blood cultures
were obtained which finalized at no growth. The vascular
service was consulted and the patient was admitted to the
vascular service for continued care. Patient underwent
pulmonary vascular resistances of the left extremity which
showed forefoot pressures of 7 mm. He then underwent an
arteriogram on [**2176-8-22**] by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] which
demonstrated the abdominal aorta was patent with single renal
arteries which were patent and duplicate and patent renal
arteries on the left. The right lower extremity had a patent
common iliac, internal and external iliac arteries. The left
lower extremity showed patent common iliac internal and
external arteries. There was a patent common femoral,
profunda and superficial femoral artery. There was mild
distal disease in the superficial femoral artery. The
popliteal was patent. Anterior tibial occludes proximally.
The posterior tibial occludes in mid calf. The perineal has
proximal stenosis but runs off to the ankle and reconstitutes
a plantar in the foot. The patient tolerated the arteriogram.
His post BUN and creatinine remained stable. He was given a
bicarb Mucomyst protocol pre- and post angiogram.

Cardiology was consulted regarding the patient's
perioperative risk assessment for anticipated left leg
revascularization. An echocardiogram was obtained which
showed left atrium normal size. The right atrium was
moderately dilated. Left ventricular wall thickness was
normal. The ventricular cavity size was normal. The overall
left ventricular systolic function is mildly depressed. There
were resting regional wall motion abnormalities including
inferolateral hypokinesis with distal septal, distal inferior
and apical akinesis. The right ventricle chamber size was
normal and systolic function was normal. The mitral valve
leaflet was a mild thickness with 1+ mitral regurgitation.
There was mild pulmonary systolic hypertension. Compared with
previous echocardiogram done [**2174-6-1**] there was no
change. Patient's calculated ejection fraction was 40 to 45%.
The patient underwent a stress test. The initial portion of
stress showed no anginal symptoms or ischemic
electrocardiographic changes. The resting and stress
perfusion images demonstrated moderate reversible perfusion
defect in the anterior wall and apex that is more prominent
when compared to [**2174-11-21**]. Gated imaging revealed
normal wall motion and the calculated ejection fraction is
49%. Cardiology assessed the patient as intermediate clinical
risk markers for surgery. They felt that there was no further
cardiac evaluation indicated at this time. Recommendations
were to continue current medical management.

The patient's diabetic management was under the care of the
[**Last Name (un) **] Service during his hospitalization. He was able to be
maintained on his pre-admission insulin dosing with minimal
correction. The patient underwent on [**2176-8-29**] a
left popliteal to peroneal bypass with nonreversed saphenous
vein graft angioscopy. Patient tolerated the procedure well
and was transferred to the post anesthesia care unit in
stable condition. The patient had a monophasic dorsalis pedis
and a biphasic posterior tibial and a warm foot post
procedure. Patient continued to do well and was transferred
to the Vascular Intensive Care Unit for continued monitoring
and care. Postoperative day #1 there were no overnight
events. The patient remained on bed rest and ambulation was
begun on postoperative day #2. He was continued on
perioperative antibiotics of Vancomycin, Levofloxacin and
Flagyl. Postoperative enzymes were negative. Patient's heart
rate was well controlled on Toprol XL 25 mg and nifedipine CR
30 mg. Postoperative day #2 the patient had an episode of
rapid atrial fibrillation. The patient's Toprol was increased
and his diltiazem was also increased for a goal heart rate of
60s to 70s and his beta blockade and calcium channel blocker
would need to be adjusted for blood pressure greater than 110
to 120. Patient was placed on drip and rate adjusted for rate
control and blood pressure control. Postoperative day 3
patient converted to normal sinus rhythm and he was converted
to oral agents. Patient remained in sinus rhythm during the
rest of this hospitalization.

Physical therapy worked with the patient and felt that he
would be best serviced by a short term rehabilitation stay
before being discharged to home. On postoperative day 5 the
patient's Foley was discontinued. Anticoagulation was begun
via D line. Pulmonary vascular resistances were obtained.
Study demonstrated metatarsal pressures on the left of 7 mm
and on the right 4 mm. The remaining hospital course was
unremarkable and the patient was discharged to rehabilitation
in stable condition. Patient will follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**]
in two weeks time and a decision will be made at that time
regarding left first toe amputation. The patient should also
follow up with his cardiologist, Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **], and continue on
his Coumadin. His INR should be monitored on a daily basis
until the patient is in a steady therapeutic state of goal
INR of 2.0 to 3.0. Adjust Coumadin dosing accordingly. The
patient will be also discharged on diltiazem 240 mg q.d. He
may ambulate essential distances, full weight bearing with an
Ace wrap from knee to foot when ambulating. He will keep his
foot elevated when not ambulating.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Lisinopril 20 mg q.d., Alrestatin 10
mg q.d., Lasix 20 mg q Mon