Admission Date:  [**2119-12-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2119-12-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2076-2-20**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MEDICINE

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Asthma flare.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 43-year-old female
with a history of asthma, status post intubation times one
and hospitalization times two, now complaining of upper
respiratory infection symptoms times one week who developed
acute shortness of breath on [**2119-12-8**].  Albuterol
was not helpful.  Patient had worsening over the 24 hours
with cough with no sputum or clear sputum.  Patient also
complains of chest pain secondary to cough.  Patient denies
fevers, chills, headache, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea and dysuria.  Patient reports lower extremity edema,
orthopnea for a long time which is unchanged.  Patient has
smoked for the past 20 years, one pack a day.  Patient is now
trying to quit, is on Wellbutrin.  Smoking three to four
cigarettes per day over the past week.

In the Emergency Room, patient had a temperature of 99.4.
Heart rate of 115-120.  O2 saturations were in the high 80s
with significant respiratory distress, speaking in broken
sentences, using accessory muscles.  Patient still with
significant wheezing, dyspnea after six nebulizer treatments.
Patient also received two grams of magnesium,  60 mg
prednisone po .25 mg subcutaneous terbutaline.  Peak flows
after six nebulizers were between 150-200 saturating at 93%
with labored breathing.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Asthma, peak flows at home 275-300
hospitalization in [**2117**], intubated in [**2118**].  Triggers
include:  Plants and flowers.
2.  Degenerative joint disease.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Hyperlipidemia.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Flovent, Serevent, albuterol, Captopril,
hydrochlorothiazide, Wellbutrin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is not married and lives with
her three children.  Not currently employed, occasional
alcohol use.  Tobacco 20 years times one pack a day, now
0-1/2 pack a day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION UPON ADMISSION:  Temperature 99.4.
Heart rate 120.  Blood pressure 122/80, saturation 95% on
five liters face mask.  General:  Patient speaking in short
sentences, broken sentences, using accessory muscles.  Skin
warm and dry.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.
Oropharynx clear.  No sinus tenderness.  Neck:  No jugular
venous distention, supple, no lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular exam:  Tachycardic, regular rhythm, no
murmurs, rubs or gallops but difficult exam secondary to
breast implants.  Lungs: Decreased breath sounds at bases
bilaterally, wheezing bilaterally with increased expiratory
rate.  Abdominal exam:  Bowel sounds present, soft,
nontender, nondistended, no hepatosplenomegaly.  Back:  No
CVA tenderness, spinal tenderness. Extremities:  1+ edema,
warm, 2+ pulses bilaterally.  Neurological exam:  Patient was
alert and oriented times three.

Chest x-ray showed increased lung volume, no evidence of
congestive heart failure or infiltrate with a question of a
previously seen bone island in the seventh rib on the right.

Electrocardiogram at that point in time was pending.

An echocardiogram in [**2118-10-9**] shows an ejection
fraction of greater than 55% with left atrial dilation.

LABORATORIES UPON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell count was
13, hematocrit 40, platelets 352,000.  Chem-7:  Sodium 132,
potassium 4.4, chloride 96, bicarbonate 27, BUN 12,
creatinine 0.9, glucose 101.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  Patient is a 43-year-old female with a
history of asthma who presents with upper respiratory
infection symptoms increased shortness of breath times 24
hours, labored breathing, question of fevers with significant
respiratory distress after six nebulizer treatments.  Patient
was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for further
treatment.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  Pulmonary:  Patient is having an asthma exacerbation
secondary to upper respiratory infection.  Chest x-ray not
suggestive of pneumonia or congestive heart failure.  Patient
improved in hospital course.  She was started on frequent
nebulizer treatments, albuterol, Atrovent nebulizers starting
q. 1-2 hours, which was spread out gradually as patient's
respiratory status improved.  On hospital day four, patient
was requiring nebulizers every four hours.  Patient did not
have to be intubated.  Patient was started on Solu-Medrol 80
mg q. 8 times 24 hours and then switched to prednisone 60 mg
po q.d.  Patient was transferred from the Medical Intensive
Care Unit on [**12-12**] after improvement and decrease in
requirement for albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers.  Patient's
peak flows continued to improve during her hospital course
after outside of the Intensive Care Unit, improving to
200-275 which is her baseline at home.  Patient subjectively
states that her respiratory status is better, that she does
not feel that she is wheezing.  She does have an occasional
cough.  Patient was encouraged to stop smoking.  Patient did
say she would continue on her Wellbutrin and try to stop
smoking.  Patient's outpatient asthma management was changed
slightly in that patient was started on an Atrovent inhaler.
Patient was also started on Atrovent and albuterol nebulizers
as needed at home.  Flovent was increased from 110 mcg to 220
mcg 4 puffs b.i.d.  Respiratory Therapy closely watched
patient and educated patient on proper spacer and inhaler use
which seemed to be adequate per Respiratory Therapy.  Patient
was also given the number for the Asthma Watch to help
follow-up with asthma education.  Patient did improve during
hospital course, but there is much more room for improvement
of her asthma management as an outpatient.

2.  Cardiovascular:  Patient has a history of hyperlipidemia
and hypertension.  Patient was continued on her Captopril,
hydrochlorothiazide during in patient.  Patient's blood
pressures remained within normal limits anywhere between
120-140/70s-90s with heart rates in the 90s-80s.  Patient was
discharged on the same medications.

3.  Infectious Disease:  Patient remained afebrile during her
hospital stay.  Her white blood cell count was slightly
increased during her hospital stay.  It was likely secondary
to stress not infection.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Asthma exacerbation.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Patient is discharged to home with a
follow-up appointment with her primary care physician's nurse
practitioner, Dr.[**Name (NI) 101447**]. nurse practitioner, [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
on [**12-29**] at 10:40 a.m.  Patient was given the number
for the Asthma Watch at [**Social Security Number 101448**] to help with asthma
education.

MEDICATIONS AT DISCHARGE:  Patient was continued with the
same medications upon admission.  Changes in medications
include:  Flovent which was increased to 220 mcg 4 puffs
b.i.d.  Patient was started on Atrovent inhaler 2 puffs
b.i.d.  Patient was started on Atrovent and albuterol
nebulizers q.i.d. prn.  Patient was given a 30 day taper on
her prednisone with four days of the 60 mg po t.i.d. and then
five days each of 50 mg down to 10 mg po q.d.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 2515**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 4517**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4518**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6763**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2119-12-19**]  14:58
T:  [**2119-12-19**]  14:58
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
