Admission Date:  [**2172-1-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2172-1-20**]


Service:  SICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86-year-old
female with a history of diverticulitis status post sigmoid
colectomy, total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy, appendectomy, femoropopliteal bypass x
3, transferred from an outside hospital with worsening
abdominal pain and urinary tract infection.  The patient was
taken to the operating room from the emergency room for
exploratory laparotomy, gastrostomy and jejunostomy tube
placement, during which she was given 3.5 liters of
intravenous fluids and 3 units of packed red blood cells.
The patient had an arterial cutdown over the left radial arm
that resulted in decreased perfusion to the left hand and the
line was pulled.  The patient had dopamine started in the
emergency room.  She was admitted to the surgical intensive
care unit for postoperative management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Peripheral vascular disease,
hypercholesterolemia, and spinal stenosis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Sigmoid colectomy in [**2168**] with
Hartmann's pouch, total abdominal hysterectomy, appendectomy,
right femoropopliteal bypass x 2, left total hip replacement,
and left femoropopliteal bypass.

MEDICATIONS:  Lipitor, Vioxx and Tylenol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Positive tobacco, positive alcohol use.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies..

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs showed a blood pressure of
115/38, heart rate 87, respiratory rate 22, mechanical
ventilation, SIMV, tidal volume of 550, respiratory rate 9 on
100% FIO2.  In general she was elderly and intubated.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat examination showed pupils to be 8
mm bilaterally reactive; nasogastric tube in place; positive
gag.  Chest examination showed coarse breath sounds.  Abdomen
was soft with silent bowel sounds.  Dressing was clear, dry
and intact.  Extremities showed the right hand to be blue
with negative Doppler pulses in the upper extremities.
Neurologic examination showed her to be following commands,
minimally sedated.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count was 3.9, hematocrit 40,
platelet count 160, sodium 147, potassium 3.4, chloride 110,
bicarbonate 21, BUN 39, creatinine 1.5, glucose 75, INR 1.9,
calcium 8.2, phosphorous 4.4, magnesium 1.9, CPK 2720, MB
index 3.3, troponin 1.8, ALT 1,981, AST 4,108, alkaline
phosphatase 82, total bilirubin 1.5.

EKG showed sinus rhythm.  Transthoracic echocardiogram
demonstrated an ejection fraction of less than 20% with
global hypokinesis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an elderly female with a
history of peripheral vascular disease admitted with acute
abdomen and taken emergently to the operating room.  The
patient rapidly developed a worsening lactic acidosis
requiring multiple pressors for blood pressure support as
well as large amounts of fluid resuscitation.  The patient
had a Swan-Ganz catheter placed for improved hemodynamic
monitoring.  The patient's hand improved with attempts at
papaverine as well as warming and improved blood pressure
control.  The patient's lactic acidosis continued to worsen
and blood pressure remained marginal despite aggressive
hydration and pressor support.  The patient suffered a PA
arrest and bilateral chest tubes were placed with improved
hemodynamics.  Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 957**] held a family discussion with Ms.
[**Known lastname 16643**] daughter and son and the decision was to make her
DNR/DNI and to withdraw support per the family.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To funeral home.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Expired.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1. Sepsis.
2. Ischemic bowel.





                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4007**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 16516**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2172-1-20**]  20:13
T:  [**2172-1-24**]  10:08
JOB#:  [**Job Number 47161**]
