Admission Date:  [**2132-10-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2132-10-14**]


Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is an 84-year-old woman
with coronary artery disease, chronic atrial fibrillation,
and congestive heart failure, who presented to an outside
hospital approximately two weeks prior to admission with
increased dyspnea and lower extremity edema.  The patient was
ruled out for MI and diuresed at the outside hospital.  Pacer
interrogation there showed junctional tachycardia with
possible nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, and the
patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for an Electrophysiology study and possible
defibrillator placement.

The Electrophysiology study at this hospital showed atrial
flutter.  The patient was doing well after her study until
overnight at which time she was found to be hypotensive with
blood pressure in the 60-70 range.  She was subsequently
found to be in cardiac arrest, and was intubated and
transferred to the CCU.

Workup in the CCU showed that the patient may have had a
non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction as the etiology for
her cardiac arrest.  A head CT was done which was negative
for a stroke.  The patient was maintained on pressors for
blood pressure control.  Following stabilization, she was
extubated and the pressors were discontinued.  She was then
transferred to the floor.

Once back on the floor, patient was gently diuresed as there
was signs of congestive heart failure.  Her blood pressure
was low, but stable.  Though on admission, the patient was a
full code while in the CCU.  Discussion with the patient and
the family by the CCU staff resulted in patient being made
DNR/DNI.

On [**10-14**], the patient was shown to be in ventricular
fibrillation, cardiac arrest as seen on telemetry.  As the
patient was DNR/DNI, no cardiac resuscitation was attempted.
The patient was examined and found to have fixed pupils
dilated, no audible heart or breath sounds.  Patient's family
arrived shortly after the patient passed away and was
notified of her death.  Postmortem examination was declined.

Time of death was 11:33 a.m. on [**2132-10-14**].



                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1008**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1009**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 5709**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2132-11-3**]  11:12
T:  [**2132-11-6**]  07:07
JOB#:  [**Job Number 53521**]
