Admission Date:  [**2181-8-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2181-9-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2129-6-30**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 52-year-old
gentleman who transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] from an outside hospital after presenting to the
Emergency Department with a large evolving anterolateral wall
myocardial infarction.

The patient reports a 4-day history of substernal chest pain
increasing over the hours prior to admission to the hospital.
The chest pain was associated with radiation to his jaw and
shoulders as well as nausea and vomiting.

In the Emergency Department at the outside hospital the
patient was placed on intravenous nitroglycerin, Aggrastat,
and heparin.  The patient was given Lopressor, morphine, and
Plavix and transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for cardiac catheterization.

Cardiac catheterization revealed an ejection fraction of 15%,
a 100% left anterior descending artery occlusion, a 100%
right coronary artery occlusion, a 50% left circumflex
occlusion, 2+ mitral regurgitation, elevated filling
pressures.  Intra-aortic balloon pump was placed, and the
patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Osteoarthritis in the right hip.
2.  History of polio as a child with shortened right leg.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Preoperative medications included
aspirin as needed.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient reports 6 to 10 beers per night.
Positive tobacco use with greater than a 50-pack-year
history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit.  A Cardiac
Surgery consultation was obtained.

On his initial laboratory data, the patient was found to have
a urinary tract infection and was started on ciprofloxacin.
The patient was seen by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] who planned to take
the patient to surgery; however, on the evening on hospital
day one, the patient became extremely agitated and delirious
requiring sedation and intubation for patient safety.  It was
thought the patient was progressing through alcohol
withdrawal and delirium tremens.  The patient was started on
a Versed and Fentanyl drip and remained sedated.  The patient
was also noted to have a rising creatinine which was thought
to be attributed to the intravenous dye from the cardiac
catheterization.

On the evening on hospital day two, the patient became
significantly hypotensive and a pulmonary artery catheter was
placed for further patient management.  Showed a low cardiac
index and relatively low filling pressures.  The patient
continued to have an intra-aortic balloon pump at this time.
As well, the patient continued to have a rising creatinine.
After Swan-Ganz placement at the beside, the patient's
hypotension was due to aggressive antihypertensive
adjustment, and his antihypertensive medications were
decreased.  The patient did not have any further episodes of
hypotension.

On hospital day four, attempts were made to wean the
patient's Versed drip.  The patient became extremely
agitated, and the patient was given intermittent boluses of
sedation.  It was also felt that the patient had an evolving
sinusitis due to increasing secretions.  The patient was
continued on levofloxacin for coverage of his urinary tract
infection as well as his sinusitis.

In attempts to improve the patient's cardiac output, the
patient was started on low-dose dobutamine.  The intra-aortic
balloon pump was removed without any bleeding complications.
The patient continued on low-dose dobutamine to maintain and
adequate cardiac output.

On hospital day five, the patient's sputum culture grew
gram-negative rods.  In light of this, the patient was placed
on intravenous Zosyn.  The patient's creatinine started to
decrease.  The patient continued to remain intubated and
sedated.

On hospital day six, the Versed drip was weaned off as well
as the Fentanyl drip.  The patient was switched to around the
clock Ativan boluses.

On hospital day seven, the patient developed bibasilar
infiltrates on chest x-ray.  Attempts were made to wean the
patient from the ventilator and were unsuccessful due to
extreme agitation.  The patient was restarted on Fentanyl
drip and an Ativan drip.  The patient was in congestive heart
failure and was aggressively diuresed.  The patient was also
started on around the clock Haldol.  The patient's creatinine
was slowly decreasing.

On hospital day eight, a Psychiatry consultation was obtained
for assistance with managing the patient's agitation and
delirium.  Psychiatry's recommendations were to place the
patient on Haldol and wean the patient's Ativan off.  The
patient continued to require continuous Haldol infusions to
wean him off the Ativan and to prevent extreme agitation.

On hospital day eleven, the patient was successfully weaned
off propofol and weaned and extubated from mechanical
ventilation.  The patient's mental status showed that he was
mildly confused; however, he was answering questions somewhat
appropriately and was following commands.  The patient was
continued on Haldol.

Cardiac Surgery was consulted again on hospital day sixteen
due to the patient's improving mental status and respiratory
status, the Cardiology team felt that this was the
appropriate to schedule the patient for surgery.

On [**2181-9-12**], the patient was taken to the operating
room with Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] for a coronary artery bypass graft
times four with left internal mammary artery to the left
anterior descending artery, left radial to right coronary
artery, saphenous vein graft to ramus, and saphenous vein
graft to LTL?.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed in
the operating room.  The patient was started on Milrinone,
epinephrine, and Levophed drips to maintain adequate
hemodynamics.  The patient was transported to the Intensive
Care Unit in stable condition.

The patient was weaned and extubated from mechanical
ventilation on his first postoperative evening.  The
epinephrine was weaned off.  The Milrinone was weaned to off
on postoperative day one.  The intra-aortic balloon pump was
removed on postoperative day one.  The patient was started on
Lopressor.  The patient's intravenous nitroglycerin was
transitioned to Imdur for the patient's radial artery graft.
On postoperative day two, the patient's chest tubes were
removed.  The patient was seen by Physical Therapy in the
Intensive Care Unit and began ambulating with Physical
Therapy.

On postoperative day two, the patient was transferred from
the Intensive Care Unit to the regular part of the hospital.

On postoperative day six, the patient's beta blockers had
progressively been increased and the patient began having
episodes of sinus bradycardia down into the 30s.  The
Electrophysiology Service was consulted.  Recommendations
were made to decrease the patient's beta blockers.  The
patient was changed from Lopressor to low-dose atenolol.  The
patient did not have any further episodes of bradycardia.
The patient was weaned off of his Haldol.  The patient
continued to have intermittent episodes of shortness of
breath.

On postoperative day seven, a chest x-ray was obtained which
showed a moderate sized left pleural effusion.  A
thoracentesis was done which resulted in the draining of 7800
cc of serosanguineous fluid with resolution of the pleural
effusion by chest x-ray.  No pneumothorax.  However, the
patient continued to have moderate atelectasis in the left
lower lobe.  The patient was instructed to do aggressive
coughing and deep breathing.  The patient was anxious to go
home.

By postoperative day seven, the patient had been cleared by
Physical Therapy, and the patient's family anxious and
willing to have the patient come home.  Therefore, the
patient was cleared for discharge to home.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient's temperature
maximum was 97.2 degrees Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 96 in
sinus rhythm, his blood pressure was 140/80, his