Admission Date: [**2161-4-6**]        Discharge Date: [**2161-4-14**]


Service:  MICU


ADDENDUM:

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  Respiratory failure:
The patient was admitted from the emergency department to the
medical [**Hospital1 **] team.  The patient was in congestive heart
failure secondary to atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular rhythm.  She was given high-dose Lasix,
diltiazem, metoprolol, and verapamil for rate control and
diuresis in an attempt to increase the patient's oxygenation
status.  In addition, the patient was placed on BIPAP in an
attempt to help the patient with her oxygenation status.
However, this attempt failed as the respiratory therapist was
unable to find a comfortable setting for the patient.  The
patient pulled off the BIPAP machine.  At around 04:30 in the
morning, RT was called again to try to replace the BIPAP and
find a comfortable setting for the patient without success.
Over the course of the night, the patient progressively
became more lethargic and sleepy and eventually stopped
speaking.  MICU was called to evaluate the patient; and on
initial examination, the patient was noted to be folded in
half with head on pannus and clearly not ventilating.  An ABG
was done and it showed marked respiratory acidosis.  MICU
resident again attempted to try to initiate BIPAP, but was
having difficulties with the seal and multiple air leaks.
The patient continued to be somnolent.  At that time, the
patient was given 10 mg of diltiazem to try to decrease the
heart rate as the patient was noted to be in the 130s to
140s.  Heart rate decreased from 130s to 110.  She was given
additional Lasix and then subsequently placed on a Lasix drip
to facilitate diuresis.  Noninvasive mask ventilation was
attempted several times throughout the night without success.
At that point, the patient was considered to be DNR/DNI.
Health care proxy was called, who then called one of the
family members; and in a conference call between the primary
team resident, health care proxy, and the family member, it
was decided to reverse the patient's code status and the
patient was intubated on the floor.  The patient was
subsequently transferred up into the intensive care unit.
The patient was maintained on assist control throughout most
of her hospital course.  Respiratory rate, PEEP, and FiO2
were adjusted to increase oxygenation and correct the
respiratory acidosis.  The patient's heart rate was more
adequately controlled in the unit with closer monitoring and
the patient was diuresed on a daily basis to optimize the
patient's ability to wean off the ventilator.  The patient
was given multiple trials of weaning by placing the patient
on CPAP 10 and 5 or 5 and 5 without any success.  Hence, she
failed multiple attempts of weaning and her RSBI were
persistently elevated above 100.  Levofloxacin and Solu-
Medrol were started on admission to the intensive care unit
for treatment of a possible chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease flare with a superimposed infection.  However,
despite this treatment modality, the patient's respiratory
status did not improve.  The patient was subsequently noted
to have MRSA growing out of sputum so the antibiotics were
appropriately changed for MRSA coverage with vancomycin.
Despite our best efforts in an attempt to optimize the
patient's respiratory status, she continued to fail weaning
trials.  We aggressively diuresed her believing that she
might have been volume overloaded, aggressively controlled
her heart rate to prevent any flash pulmonary edema secondary
to her atrial fibrillation, treated her infection with
levofloxacin and then vancomycin once the culture results
returned to have MRSA in her sputum, placed her on steroids
on admission to the MICU with the thought that she might have
had a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare, but
despite these treatment modalities, the patient continued to
require the ventilator for oxygenation and ventilation.  The
patient had underlying restrictive lung disease as well as
severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  With this new
congestive heart failure decompensation/chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease flare, it is very likely that the patient
might have had a worsening of her respiratory status and
functional capacity requiring her to become ventilator-
dependent for a more prolonged period of time.  This
information was communicated to the family member and the
health care proxy.  The medical intensive care unit team met
with the family member on multiple occasions communicating
the patient's status, treatments, and failed attempt to wean
off the ventilator.  The family member in conjunction with
the health care proxy with assistance of the medical
intensive care unit team came to a decision based upon the
data that the patient would be extubated and made DNR/DNI
with comfort measures only.  The patient expired on [**2161-4-14**]
at 02:50 a.m.

Atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure:  The
patient was diuresed with the negative I&O goal of negative 1
to 2 liters per day.  Volume status was reassessed on a daily
basis and Lasix was adjusted accordingly.  Her atrial
fibrillation was rate controlled with verapamil.  Verapamil
was increased as tolerated for heart rate control of less
than 100.  The patient was placed on the maximum dose of
verapamil 160 mg b.i.d.  Because of the patient's atrial
fibrillation, she was placed on heparin weight-based protocol
and had her Coumadin discontinued.  The patient was noted to
have an INR of 4.0, which we thought was secondary to the
drug-drug interactions of levofloxacin and the Coumadin.
Coumadin was discontinued and the patient was given vitamin K
10 mg subcutaneous x 3 while being maintained on the heparin
weight based.  PT, PTT, and INRs were checked several times a
day to maintain therapeutic PTTs while on heparin.

Leukocytosis:  More than likely secondary to the
administration of the prednisone/Solu-Medrol for treatment of
her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare.  However,
consideration was given to a superimposed infection.  Hence
the patient was started on levofloxacin and subsequently
switched over to vancomycin once sputum culture returned back
with positive MRSA growing from her sputum.  Temperature
curves were followed throughout hospital course as well as
white blood cell count.

Coagulopathy:  Likely secondary to a drug-drug interaction
being caused by levofloxacin and Coumadin as well as poor
nutritional status.  Coumadin was discontinued, and the
patient was given vitamin K 10 mg x 3.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease:  The patient was continued
on lansoprazole.

Anxiety:  The patient was continued on Klonopin.

Sjogren's:  The patient was continued on steroids.

Anemia:  Hematocrit was checked on a daily basis and
parameters were set to transfuse for a hematocrit of less
than 30.  The patient's hematocrit was persistently elevated
ranging from 33 to 39.

FEM:  Electrolytes were checked on a daily basis and repleted
as necessary.

Prophylaxis:  The patient was continued on lansoprazole,
placed on a bowel regimen, placed on heparin weight-based IV
protocol.

Communication:  Communication was with the cousin and her
daughter, who is the family member and the health care proxy.
Family meetings were done on almost a daily basis to reassess
goals and to update the family on the patient's clinical
status.  We maintained close communication with the patient's
family member and the health care proxy to assist them with
clinical decisions regarding the patient's care.  After
multiple attempts and several days of trying to wean the
patient off the ventilator, we addressed the patient's code
status again with the family member and the health care
proxy.  They had come to a conclusion to withdraw care and to
make the patient DNR/DNI after they were presented with the
data and realized that the patient did not want to be on
mechanical ventilation for an extended period.  The patient
expired on [**2161-4-14**] at 02:50 a.m.



                        [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name8 (MD) 48446**], M.D.

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 49203**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2161-7-