Admission Date:  [**2148-10-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2148-11-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2089-4-16**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was a 59-year-old
male with a history of severe bolus emphysema who presented
to an outside hospital on [**2148-10-8**] in hypercarbic
respiratory failure requiring intubation and who was
subsequently found to have 100% right pneumothorax.  After
recurrence of the pneumothorax despite repeated tube
thoracostomies, the patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for further management, failure to
wean, and concern of bronchopleural fistula.

At the outside hospital the patient had also been treated for
a pneumonia that was believed to have progressed despite
treatment with ceftriaxone and azithromycin.  The patient was
subsequently placed on a regimen of ciprofloxacin and
vancomycin.  The patient had also been placed on a steroid
taper for his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  He had
required large amounts of benzodiazepines at the outside
hospital and was thought to have been experiencing alcohol
withdrawal.  The patient had persistent tachycardia at the
outside hospital and been ruled out for myocardial infarction
by enzymes.  He was, however, suspected to have had some
degree of demand ischemia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Severe bolus chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with
an FEV1 of 1.12, an FVC of 2.5, and a DLCO of 34% of
predicted on [**2148-3-20**].
 2.  History of bilateral pneumonia resistant to ceftriaxone
and azithromycin.
 3.  Anemia, not otherwise specified.
 4.  Alcohol abuse with a history of withdrawal.
 5.  History of a negative cardiac catheterization in [**2146-6-4**].
 6.  Hypertension.
 7.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 8.  Hiatal hernia repair.
 9.  Basal cell carcinoma excision from nose.
10.  Hypercholesterolemia.

ALLERGIES:  MOTRIN and CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKER.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers,
heparin subcutaneous, Zantac 50 mg p.o. t.i.d., multivitamin,
ciprofloxacin 400 mg b.i.d., aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.,
vancomycin 1 g b.i.d., Solu-Medrol taper, lactulose, Versed
p.r.n., morphine sulfate, Ativan, Lopressor p.r.n., and
nitroglycerin patch.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone.  The patient had an
extensive smoking history.  The patient has a history of
alcohol abuse with a history of withdrawal.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  The patient presented on
a ventilator which was set at IMV with a volume of 800, a
rate of 12, inspired oxygen of 50%, and a pressure support
of 10.  The patient's pulse was 71, blood pressure 149/79,
respiratory rate of 13, and oxygen saturation of 94%.
Generally, he was an ill-appearing middle-aged man in no
apparent distress.  He was ventilated and sedated.  HEENT
revealed pupils that were equally, round, and reactive to
light.  An orogastric tube was in place.  On neck
examination, the patient had no cervical lymphadenopathy.  On
cardiac examination, the patient had a regular rate and
rhythm with a normal S1 and S2, and no murmur, rubs or
gallops.  On pulmonary examination, the patient had crepitus
along his right chest wall with a chest tube in his right
thoracic wall.  Coarse wheezes were heard bilaterally.  On
abdominal examination, the patient's belly was soft,
nontender, and nondistended, with normal bowel sounds.
Extremity examination revealed no edema.  Vascular
examination revealed good capillary refill.  For access, the
patient had a right peripherally inserted central catheter
line in place.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  The patient had a
white blood cell count of 14.5, hematocrit of 38.8, platelets
of 233.  His Chem-7 revealed a sodium of 138, potassium
of 4.3, chloride of 96, bicarbonate of 30, BUN of 21, and
creatinine of 0.8, with a glucose of 127.  His ALT was 44,
with an AST of 26, and alkaline phosphatase of 77, and a
total bilirubin of 0.7.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram revealed a normal
sinus rhythm with a rate of 65, normal axis, normal channels,
normal intervals.  ST elevations in II, III, and F with no Q
waves appreciated, and an inverted T wave in aVL.  When this
was compared to his admission electrocardiogram at the
outside hospital there appeared to be no changes.

Chest x-ray revealed chest tube in the right chest with a
small residual right pneumothorax, left lower lobe opacity,
and a question of a left pleural effusion were noted.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   This patient was directly admitted to [**Hospital1 1444**] Medical Intensive Care Unit
on [**2148-10-17**], from the outside hospital.  The
patient presented febrile with an elevated white count with
an oxygen saturation of 94% on the above vent settings with
coarse rhonchorous breath sounds, right chest wall crepitus,
and a chest x-ray significant for right pneumothorax.

Cardiothoracic Surgery was consulted and replaced the
patient's chest tube.  The patient completed his steroid
taper and was placed on an antibiotic regimen of
levofloxacin, gentamicin, and vancomycin.  Flagyl was
subsequently added for anaerobic coverage after an episode of
succulent nasogastric aspirate.  A KUB performed revealed no
obstruction.  The patient continued to spike fevers, and his
regimen was changed to ceftazidime, vancomycin, and Flagyl to
cover possible ventilator associated pneumonia.  The patient
had transient episodes of hypotension unresponsive fluid
boluses, requiring short intervals on pressors.  The patient
eventually defervesced for 48 hours.  A repeat chest CT
revealed severe bolus disease with a large left bola under
tension and bilateral pneumonia.

On [**10-22**], the patient had an arterial blood gas that
revealed hypoxemia.  PEEP 5 mmHg was added with modest
improvement in the PAO2.  On [**10-24**], the patient spiked
a temperature to 100.9.  The patient was pan cultured with no
growth on any cultures.  He was diuresed with modest
improvement in oxygenation.  By [**10-24**], all of his
access lines had been changed.  The patient continued to
spike temperatures to 101 to 102.  Stool studies were
negative including studies for Clostridium difficile toxin.
On [**10-24**], the patient had a tracheostomy placed, and
on [**10-25**], the patient underwent a PEG-J placement by
Interventional Radiology.  On [**10-26**], the patient
continued to be hypoxemic.  The concern at that point was for
right-to-left shunt secondary to the patient's bilateral
pneumonia or pulmonary embolus.  A CT angiogram revealed a
large left [**MD Number(3) 26547**] pulmonary embolism, and the patient's
chest tube in an intraparenchymal location.  The chest tube
was pulled by Cardiothoracic Surgery, and the patient was
started on a continuous heparin infusion.  An echocardiogram
was performed to evaluate right ventricular function but was
severely limited by the patient's bolus disease.

On [**10-29**], the patient became markedly hypoxemic with
an emergent CT that revealed 50% recurrent pneumothorax on
the right.  Cardiothoracic Surgery placed a right chest tube
with resolution of the pneumothorax.  However, the patient
required paralysis in order to achieve cooperation with the
ventilator.  That evening, the patient became markedly
hypotensive requiring Neo-Synephrine support.  An
electrocardiogram and chest x-ray done at that time were
unremarkable.

A family meeting was held the next day, and the patient was
made do not resuscitate.  The patient was eventually weaned
off pressors.  The patient remained hypercarbic and
relatively hypoxemic.  The patient was eventually placed on
pressure control ventilation, and his I to E ratio was
altered to improve oxygenation.  The patient's driving
pressure and PEEP were also increased.  On [**10-31**], the
patient completed a 10-day course of antibiotics and all were
discontinued.  The patient was re-cultured.  By [**10-31**],
all of his access lines had been relocated for a second time.
His Foley was changed.

On [**11-1**], the patient became markedly acidotic,
hypercarbic, and hypoxemic.  His ventilatory settings were
adjusted.  A conversation was held with the patient's
daughter who expressed her desire to have the patient
designated comfort meas