Admission Date:  [**2117-11-11**]     Discharge Date:  [**2117-11-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2043-4-9**]     Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Cold left upper extremity.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 74-year-old
female with a history of end-stage renal disease (on
hemodialysis), insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, ischemic
cardiomyopathy, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular
disease, status post angioplasty and stenting of left
subclavian artery in [**2113**].

She was admitted to [**Hospital6 3105**] on [**2117-11-2**] for evaluation of left lower extremity pain.  She
underwent an angiogram which revealed (1) right common iliac
artery to common femoral vein arteriovenous fistula; (2)
occluded right superficial femoral artery with reconstituted
above-knee popliteal, mid popliteal stenosis, and 3-vessel
runoff; (3) occluded left common femoral artery to popliteal
graft with reconstituted left below-knee popliteal with
stenosis of distal left popliteal into peroneal trunk,
stenosis of left anterior tibial origin with very small
anterior tibial/posterior tibial in left calf.  The patient
also developed pain in her left arm and hand which
subsequently progressed to a pulseless hand two days prior to
admission.  She was transferred to [**Hospital1 190**] to further evaluate the left arm.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease, status post myocardial
infarction, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.
 2.  Congestive heart failure.
 3.  Cerebrovascular accident in [**2109**]  [**2116**].
 4.  Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
 5.  Hypertension.
 6.  Increased cholesterol.
 7.  Left breast carcinoma.
 8.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
 9.  End-stage renal disease on hemodialysis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Left breast lumpectomy with axillary lymph node
dissection in [**2103**].
2.  Left inguinal hernia repair.
3.  Left femoropopliteal in [**2112**], jump graft left
femoropopliteal.
4.  Multiple angioplasties and stent of left superior
cerebellar artery.
5.  Right pseudoaneurysm repair on [**2116-12-11**].

ALLERGIES:  ERYTHROMYCIN.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Mycotic 80 mg p.o. q.h.s.,
aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix 180 mg p.o. on Sunday, Monday,
Wednesday, Friday at 8:00 a.m., NPH 28 units subcutaneous
q.a.m. and 16 units subcutaneous q.p.m., regular insulin 5
units subcutaneous q.a.m. and 5 units subcutaneous q.p.m.,
Renagel 800 mg p.o. t.i.d., Nephrocaps 1 p.o. q.d., Neurontin
200 mg p.o. t.i.d., Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s., Atarax 25 mg
p.o. q.6h. p.r.n., Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., nitro-paste
q.6h.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vitals on examination
revealed a temperature of 100, pulse of 100, blood pressure
of 114/69, saturating 98% on 2 liters.  General examination
revealed lethargic but easily arousable, oriented times
three.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat revealed pupils
were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements were intact.  Chest revealed decreased breath
sounds at the bases.  Cardiovascular with first heart sound
and second heart sound.  The abdomen was obese, soft,
nondistended, and nontender with healed scar in the right
lower quadrant.  Extremities revealed left upper extremity
brachial dopplerable monophasic signal.  Radial and ulnar
were not dopplerable.  Lower extremity pulse examination
revealed left femoral palpable, right dopplerable.
Popliteals none, left and right. Left and right dorsalis
pedis were dopplerable.  Left and right posterior tibialis
were dopplerable.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit, and she was hydrated in preparation for an
angiogram on the next day.

A Renal consultation was obtained.  She underwent an
angiogram which revealed left subclavian artery thrombosis.
She was started on TPN heparin.  Subsequently, it was noted
that she reported chest pain and was diaphoretic.  An
electrocardiogram was performed which showed ST elevations.
Cardiac enzymes revealed a creatine kinase of 315.

A Cardiology consultation was obtained at this point, and she
was started on aspirin, continued the heparin, started on a
nitroglycerin infusion.  Cardiac catheterization was refused.
She did undergo hemodialysis on [**2117-11-11**].  Her chest
pain resolved, and after a discussion with the cardiologist
and the family, it was decided that no cardiac intervention
would be undertaken.

There was minimal improvement in perfusion of the left arm.
The left arm remained mottled and pulseless.  At this time,
it was noted that the patient had been made do not
resuscitate/do not intubate while at [**Hospital3 1443**]
Hospital.   After a discussion with family it was decided to
continue with this status at this point.  On [**2117-11-13**], after further discussion with the family, her status
was altered to comfort measures only.  She subsequently
expired on [**2117-11-15**].



                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4417**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2209**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2118-3-11**]  10:24
T:  [**2118-3-12**]  04:53
JOB#:  [**Job Number 25707**]
