Admission Date:  [**2158-4-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2158-5-5**]


Service:  Intensive Care Unit/Medicine

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a [**Age over 90 **] year old male with
a history of advanced Alzheimer's disease who was brought to
the Emergency Department by his Day Care Center as the
patient was having a temperature of 99.7 outside and was
becoming combative and tachypneic as well as having new cough
which was nonproductive.

When the patient came to the Emergency Department he had
cough, sputum production, fever to 102, white blood cell
count of 12.1 and a chest x-ray showing a right middle lobe
infiltrate.  He was hydrated with 2 liters of intravenous
fluid.  Two sets of blood cultures were taken, Levaquin 500
mg was given.  The patient was also found to be hypertensive.
His electrocardiogram showed ST depressions in V3 through V6
which were new.  The initial CK and troponin were flat.  He
was started on heparin drip, nitroglycerin drip and
desaturation to 70% on 2 liters of nasal cannula.  He was
subsequently intubated on pressure support ventilation with
pressure support of 12 and a positive end-expiratory pressure
of 5.  His oxygen saturations were 88% on FIO2 of 100%.
Arterial blood gases was 7.35/39/63.  He was changed to AC
ventilation with improved saturation.  He was given Lasix 40
mg intravenously times two.  The patient received sedation
with his intubation and soon after stopped his systolic blood
pressure to the 60s.  The nitroglycerin drip was stopped.
The patient was given intravenous fluid boluses which brought
his pressure up.  He brought up some pink frothy secretions
during this time which resolved on their own after fluid
boluses were stopped.  In the Intensive Care Unit the patient
required Dopamine drip and this along with the intravenous
fluids resulted in improvement in the systolic blood
pressures to the 120s.  An arterial and right internal
jugular lines were placed.  The patient was stabilized on
Dopamine drip at 6 mcg and intravenous normal saline at 100
cc/hr.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination temperature
was 100.9, blood pressure 110/50, heartrate 102, respirations
14, sating 94% on AC ventilation.  FIO2 0.6, table volume
700, respiratory rate 14, positive end-expiratory pressure 7,
peak inspiratory pressure 32.1,     23 minute volume.
General:  The patient intubated and sedation in no apparent
distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat, right pupil
minimally reactive.  Surgical left pupil.  Plump external
jugular.  No lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular:  S1 and S2
normal, distant heartsounds, no murmurs.  Lungs:  Crackles,
left greater than right, posteriorly.  Abdomen, soft,
nontender, nondistended with bowel sounds.  Extremities, no
cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Axis:  Right internal jugular,
right arterial line.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 12.1, hematocrit 41.1,
platelets 240, 4% neutrophils.  Chem-7 as follows, 137, 4.1,
98, 27, 19, 1, 79.  Urinalysis, 100 protein, greater than 50
red blood cells, rare bacteria, trace ketones, 0-2 white
blood cells, no epithelial cells.  CK #1 96, troponin #1 less
than 0.4, MB #1 not done.  CK #2 416, troponin #2 42.7, MB #2
57.  Calcium 8.9, phosphorus 2.1, magnesium 1.9.  PT is 13.4,
PTT 34, INR 1.3.  Electrocardiogram, ST depressions V3
through V6, 2 to 3 mm in size, Ms and U.  Repeat
electrocardiogram four hours after initial, more prominent ST
depression in V2.  Repeat electrocardiogram nine hours after
the first, improved ST depression, (.5 to 1 mm) after
extubation.

Chest x-ray #1 revealed right middle lobe opacity, pneumonia
versus aspiration.  Chest x-ray #2 revealed worsened
pulmonary edema.  Chest x-ray #3 pulmonary edema.

Arterial blood gas:  7.35, 39, 63 on pressor support 12.5
positive end-expiratory pressure 15, title volume 700.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a [**Age over 90 **] year old male with a past
medical history of Alzheimer's and hypertension who presented
with a likely large anterolateral myocardial infarction,
acute respiratory failure in the setting of pneumonia and
likely cardiogenic pulmonary edema and cardiac hypotension
and possible sepsis.

1.  Coronary artery disease - The patient's initial
electrocardiograms showed ST depression in V3 through V6
concerning for ischemia.  When the second set of enzymes came
back markedly positive, the patient was classified as having
non-Q wave myocardial infarction.  In the meantime, heparin
and nitroglycerin had been started appropriately and the
patient was given an Aspirin.  Given the patient's baseline
dementia and poor prognosis there was no intervention elected
by the family and Intensive Care Unit team.  The cardiac
enzymes by CK MB decreased from a high of 115 on [**4-28**], at
2:30 AM steadily to 27 by 12:40 PM on [**4-29**].

2.  Pulmonary edema - Decreased oxygen saturation.  The
patient had likely cardiogenic pulmonary edema which was
exacerbated by fluid that was given in the Emergency
Department (2 liters of intravenous fluids plus heparin and
nitroglycerin drip).  It is likely that this occurred in the
setting of a stunned myocardium.  The patient was
appropriately given Lasix to diurese him, however, this
patient developed some problems with hypotension after his
intubation and diuresis had to be taken more carefully.

3.  Hypotension - This was initially seen after intubation.
This was most likely a cardiogenic plus septic plus sedative
induced hypotension.  The patient was started on Dopamine,
however, this was weaned quickly.  Additional intravenous
fluids had to be used to maintain the blood pressure which
made it thus easy for the patient to be extubated.  However,
this was accomplished by the Medicine Intensive Care Unit
team within a short timeframe, nonetheless.

4.  Pneumonia - The patient had two blood cultures taken in
the Emergency Department and was also given Levofloxacin.
Both of the blood cultures were negative at the time of
discharge and this was a final report.  The Levofloxacin was
continued during the course of this stay.

5.  Nutrition - The patient was NPO while in the Intensive
Care Unit and some slow feeding was started p.o. with much
difficulty near the time of his transfer from the unit to the
floor.  For these reasons, the patient had a swallowing study
which showed he was grossly aspirating and had complete
failure of the swallowing mechanism.  The family was adamant
about not having the patient fed through a percutaneous tube,
hence the family's wishes were fully respected.  Given the
patient's dementia and poor prognosis, the family, social
work and palliative care ([**Doctor Last Name 2270**] Kanofsky, NOPP) as well as
the patient's attending, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] decided that it would be
best to hold a meeting to determine the patient's status.

6.  Code status - The patient was initially
Do-Not-Resuscitate, Do-Not-Intubate.  After the family
meeting, the patient was made comfort measures only.  Comfort
was determined to be the ultimate goal and a central line and
catheter were removed.  They understand that restraint
removal may not be possible outside because of safety
concerns, but as the patient has family and caregivers in
attendance restraints can be off at that time.  This will
have to be worked out as the patient is being discharged
today.  They agree that the use of oxygen should only occur
if the patient does not pull out the oxygen tube.  The
patient will be discharged to [**Hospital3 2732**] Home.  They
will receive the following orders of care being given here:

1.  Morphine elixir 20 mg/ml give .1 cc (2 mg),
sublingual/p.o. q. 2 hours prn discomfort
2.  Give sublingual Ativan or p.o. Ativan q. 2 hours prn
agitation
3.  Tylenol 650 mg p.r. q. 6 hours
4.  Scopolamine 1.5 mg transdermal q. 72 hours

No intravenous fluids or intravenous antibiotics will be
possible at [**Hospital6 256**] once the
line is pulled.  The family will continue to follow.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To Heathwood.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Fair.

CODE STATUS:  See medical orders.




                     DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) **] 12-207



Dictated By:[**Last Name (STitle) 18486**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**