Admission Date:  [**2166-10-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2166-10-30**]


Service:  CARDIAC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mrs. [**Known lastname 44908**] is a 82 year-old
woman who has a history of noninsulin dependent diabetes
mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia who originally
presented to an outside hospital the night prior to admission
with symptoms of chest pain.  The patient does have a history
of prior hospital admissions for chest pain and she has ruled
out for a myocardial infarction in the past.  Recently,
however, the patient has been having more frequent episodes
of midsternal chest pain, which often radiated to her throat
and jaw.  Her symptoms were occurring mostly around meal
times and were not associated with nausea, vomiting,
diaphoresis or shortness of breath.  The patient presented to
an outside hospital after she woke up with more intense chest
pain.  She was then treated with aspirin and sublingual
nitroglycerin and her pain was relived.  Her troponin level
at the time was 1.92, creatinine kinase was 136 with the MB
fraction of 10.7. A MIBI done a week prior to admission was
positive for a inferior reversible defect and a fixed apical
defect as well as apical dyskinesia and an ejection fraction
approximately 33%.  The patient was consequently transferred
to [**Hospital1 69**] for cardiac
catheterization and future management of her symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.  Chronic renal
insufficiency.  3.  Asthma.  4.  Diabetes mellitus controlled
with oral antiglycemics.  5.  Hypercholesterolemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  1.  Status post cholecystectomy.  2.
Status post appendectomy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Glyburide 10 mg po b.i.d.,
Glucophage 1 gram po b.i.d., Lopid 600 mg po b.i.d., Lipitor
10 mg po b.i.d., aspirin enteric coated 325 mg po q day,
Protonix 40 mg po q day, Albuterol inhalers prn, Lopressor 25
mg po b.i.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her husband.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  Hematocrit 33.8, platelets 224,
white blood cell count 7.6, BUN 38, creatinine 1.5, potassium
4.8, INR 1.2, troponin 1.92, creatine kinase 136 with the MB
fraction of 10.7.

IMAGING STUDIES:  A preoperative chest x-ray obtained on
[**2166-10-21**] showed approximately 1 cm right mid lung zone
pulmonary nodule.  The heart was in the upper limits of
normal.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the hospital
and underwent cardiac catheterization on [**2166-10-20**].  Cardiac
catheterization showed moderate mitral regurgitation,
inferior apical akinesis, global hypokinesis with a left
ventricular ejection fraction of approximately 35%.  Coronary
angiography showed nonosbtructed left MCA, totally occluded
left anterior descending coronary artery, with an ostial
lesion of 60%, left circumflex with moderate diffuse disease
with an ostial 80% lesion, right coronary artery was totally
occluded.  Given the history of unstable angina and findings
on the cardiac catheterization the patient underwent coronary
artery bypass grafting times five on [**2166-10-22**].  Bypasses were
as follows, from the ascending thoracic aorta to the obtuse
marginal and posterior lateral branch of the circumflex with
reverse otogenous saphenous vein and bypass to the posterior
descending branch on the right with a second segment of vein
into the ramus intermedius with a third segment of vein and
to the left anterior descending coronary artery to the left
internal mammary artery utilizing cardiopulmonary bypass.

The patient tolerated the procedure well.  During the
procedure the patient was difficult to wean from bypass due
to progressive left ventricular failure and reoccurrence of
mitral regurgitation.  The patient was then placed back on
bypass and consequently arrested for approximately five
minutes and then weaned fairly easily with good hemodynamics
and essentially no mitral regurgitation.  After being off
bypass for approximately fifteen minutes she once again
developed progressive deterioration of ventricular function,
which required institution of a balloon pump.  Once the
balloon pump was placed, however, she maintained reasonably
good biventricular function and good hemodynamics.  The
patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit in fair
condition.  She remained intubated.  The patient was
extubated on postoperative day one.  The extubation was
delayed due to hemodynamic instability.  The patient was
maintained on supplemental oxygen post extubation with good
saturation levels.  The patient remained in sinus rhythm with
no ectopy.  Her intraaortic balloon pump was weaned
gradually.  The patient was transfused with 2 units of packed
red blood cells.  The patient was vigorously diuresed.  Her
intraaortic balloon pump was discontinued on postoperative
day one without any complications.  The patient was noted to
be confused and agitated postoperative day two and three
while still in the Intensive Care Unit.  She was maintained
on minimal sedation.

On postoperative day three the patient went into atrial
fibrillation with heart rate in the 140s.  The patient was
treated with intravenous Lopressor.  Physical therapy was
consulted, which followed the patient throughout
hospitalization course.  Postoperative day three and four
while still in the Intensive Care Unit the patient was noted
to be hypertensive with systolic blood pressures in the 140s
and 150s.  She responded well to intravenous hydralazine.
She remained in sinus rhythm with occasional premature atrial
contractions.  The patient remained afebrile.  On examination
her sternum remained stable.  Her incision remained clean,
dry and intact.  There was no extremity edema.  The Swan-Ganz
catheter was removed on postoperative day four.  The
patient's confusion improved on postoperative day five.  Her
Foley catheter was removed.  Her blood pressures were stable.
Her rhythm was sinus.  The patient was transferred to the
regular floor on postoperative day four in stable condition.
Electrophysiology Service was consulted given the history of
postoperative atrial fibrillation.  The patient was mostly in
sinus rhythm, but continued to have occasional paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation during which time she would break into
40s heart rate and then quickly increase her heart rate
again.  She remained asymptomatic with possible left shoulder
discomfort.

Based on the recommendations provided by the
Electrophysiology Service the patient was started on
Amiodarone and was also anticoagulated with Coumadin to a
target INR of 2 to 2.5.  On postoperative day seven the
patient was noted to be more confused then usual, in addition
she was agitated slightly.  This required a sitter overnight.
However, since that time the patient no longer exhibited
signs of agitation or confusion.  Her chest tubes were
removed.  Her pacing wires were removed.  In addition, the
patient was noted to be hypertensive with systolic blood
pressures in the 150s and 160s.  Consequently she was started
on a small standing dose of Captopril with good response.
The patient remained in sinus rhythm.  She was ambulating
with assistance.  She was eating well.  The patient was
discharged to the rehabilitation facility on [**2166-10-31**].

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  Rehabilitation facility.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass grafting times five.
2.  Mitral regurgitation.
3.  Aortic insufficiency.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Hypercholesterolemia.
6.  Noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
7.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
8.  Asthma.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1.  Coumadin the dose to be adjusted
until a stable level of INR 2 to 2.5 is obtained.  2.
Amiodarone 400 mg po b.i.d. times seven days followed by 400
mg po q day times seven days followed by 200 mg po q day.  3.
Glyburide 10 mg po b.i.d.  4.  Metformin 1 gram po b.i.d.  5.
Milk of Magnesia 30 milliliters po h.s. prn constipation.  6.
Percocet one to two tablets po q 4 to 6 hours prn pain.  7.
Aspirin 81 mg po q day.  8.  Colace 100 mg po b.i.d.  9.
Lasix 20 mg po b.i.d. times seven days.  10.  Potassium
chloride 20 milliequival