Admission Date:  [**2137-10-28**]     Discharge Date:  [**2137-11-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2068-1-6**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 69-year-old
male with a past medical history significant for hypertension
and hypercholesterolemia who presented as a transfer from an
outside hospital with respiratory failure and hypotension.

Per the patient's wife, the patient had been experiencing
flu-like symptoms with fevers to 101, chills, and progressive
malaise.  The patient also reportedly had respiratory
symptoms including dyspnea, cough, and hemoptysis.

On the day of admission, the patient reportedly developed
increasing dyspnea and acute shortness of breath and 911 was
called.  In the ambulance, the patient was treated with
morphine, nitroglycerin, and 80 mg of intravenous Lasix for
congestive heart failure.  The patient required intubation
while in the ambulance for hypoxic respiratory failure and
subsequently developed pulseless electrical activity arrest.
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was initiated, and the patient
received several rounds of epinephrine and atropine; with, by
report, return of pulse and blood pressure.

On arrival to the Emergency Department at the outside
hospital, the patient again developed pulselessness and was
treated with 1 mg of epinephrine and dopamine.  Lasix was
also administered in the Emergency Department.

An electrocardiogram at the outside hospital demonstrated
sinus tachycardia to the 120s, new right bundle-branch block,
and 1-mm to 2-mm ST depressions in the precordial and
inferior leads.  The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for possible cardiac catheterization
and further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Hypercholesterolemia.
3.  Depression.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Medications prior to admission
included Zoloft and antihypertensives (particular medications
unknown).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on arrival to [**Hospital1 69**] revealed
temperature was 98.8, heart rate was 110, blood pressure was
80/50 (on dopamine), oxygen saturation was 93% on
assist-control with FIO2 of 100% and 15 of positive
end-expiratory pressure. In general, the patient was
intubated and sedated.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.  Pupils were 3 mm,
equal; however, minimally reactive.  Sclerae were anicteric.
Endotracheal tube was in place.  Pulmonary examination
revealed bilateral rales anteriorly with bronchial breath
sounds at the left base.  Cardiovascular examination revealed
tachycardic with normal first heart sound and second heart
sound.  No third heart sound or fourth heart sound.  No
significant murmurs.  Unable to assess jugular venous
distention.  Abdominal examination revealed soft, mildly
distended, hypoactive bowel sounds.  No masses were
appreciated.  Extremities were warm with 2+ dorsalis pedis
pulses and posterior tibialis pulses bilaterally.  No edema
was appreciated.  Neurologic examination revealed sedated
with occasional agitation and withdrawal to pain.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   Significant
laboratories and studies at the outside hospital revealed
arterial blood gas with a pH of 6.8, PCO2 of 71.6, PO2 of
66.8, with a bicarbonate of 11.3.  Creatine kinase was 191,
and troponin I was 4.93.  Complete blood count was notable
for a white blood cell count of 14.3.  Chemistry-7 was
notable for a blood urea nitrogen of 18 and a creatinine of
1.5.  Normal liver function tests and coagulation studies.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray at the outside hospital
demonstrated bilateral alveolar infiltrates.

Laboratories and studies on admission to [**Hospital1 346**] revealed complete blood count with a
white blood cell count of 18.5, hematocrit was 40.5, and
platelets were 242.  White blood cell count differential
revealed 77% neutrophils, 13% bands, 2% lymphocytes, 4%
monocytes, and 4% atypical cells.  Chemistry-7 revealed
sodium was 134, potassium was 5.9 (hemolyzed), chloride was
102, bicarbonate was 17, blood urea nitrogen was 28,
creatinine was 2, and blood glucose was 351.  Calcium was
7.4, phosphate was 4.9, magnesium was 1.7.  Liver function
tests revealed ALT was 62, AST was 222, alkaline phosphatase
was 949, total bilirubin was 0.9, LDH was 951.  The second
set of enzymes revealed creatine kinase was 1229, CK/MB was
74, with an index of 6.  Coagulation studies revealed PT was
16.7, PTT was 94.5, and INR was 1.9.  Arterial blood gas
revealed pH was 7.31, PCO2 was 36, PO2 was 77, with an oxygen
saturation of 95% on assist-control, tidal volume was 600,
respiratory rate was 20, FIO2 was 100%, with a positive
end-expiratory pressure of 15.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Coronary
Care Unit with multisystem organ failure.

The patient remained intubated with adequate ventilation;
however, relatively poor oxygenation with large bilateral
pleural effusions and alveolar infiltrates.  The patient
developed a ST-elevation myocardial infarction with peak
creatine kinase of greater than [**2134**], and an ejection
fraction of 10% to 15%, secondary to global left ventricular
hypokinesis.

The patient continued with persistent hypotension requiring
pressor support felt secondary to a combination of
cardiogenic and septic shock.

The patient was started on broad spectrum antibiotics for
persistent fevers to 104; however, multiple sets of cultures
including sputum, blood, and urine were without growth.  The
source of the infection was initially felt likely to be a
pulmonary process; however, given the persistent fevers
despite broad spectrum antibiotics, the patient underwent
head, thoracic, and abdominal CAT scans for evaluation for
potential additional source of infection.

The head CAT scan was notable for diffuse (predominantly
posterior) edema with loss of [**Doctor Last Name 352**]/white matter distribution.
The sinus CAT scan demonstrated multiple air/fluid levels in
the paranasal sinuses.  The chest CAT scan demonstrated
bilateral pleural effusions with pulmonary edema, and no
lymphadenopathy.  The abdominal CAT scan was unremarkable.

Neurology was consulted for evaluation of neurologic status.
The patient was weaned off of sedation with minimal
neurologic responsiveness to stimuli.  Neurology recommended
electroencephalogram and nuclear brain perfusion scan.  The
assessment; based on the results of the studies, per
Neurology, was extremely poor prognosis for meaningful
recovery.

Given this information, the family decided to withdraw care.
The patient died several minutes after extubation.





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8227**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 44461**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2137-11-12**]  11:09
T:  [**2137-11-14**]  12:57
JOB#:  [**Job Number 30504**]
