Admission Date:  [**2169-8-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2169-9-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2098-6-23**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71-year-old white male
with a history of double vision and stinging of the eyes
times approximately one month and a past medical history
significant for renal cell carcinoma approximately 20 years
ago (for which he underwent an nephrectomy on the left side
in [**2147**]).

He had been free of any obvious disease since that time, and
he further denied any change in constitutional signs or
symptoms and reportedly had been well throughout the past 20
years.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  He denies any chest pain, pressure, or
palpitations, shortness of breath, headache, nausea,
vomiting, or seizure activity.  The remainder of the previous
medical history is essentially unremarkable.  He is a
nonsmoker with a negative alcohol history, who also is status
post cholecystectomy in [**2148**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  He was on no medications.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
at the time of admission revealed blood pressure was 129/86,
heart rate was 56, and sinus bradycardia.  Respiratory rate
was within normal limits, and he was afebrile.  On physical
examination, he was awake, alert, and oriented times three.
He was pleasant and cooperative with fluent speech, and he
was in no acute distress.  The entire general physical
examination including the head, eyes, ears, nose, throat,
heart, lungs, and abdomen was essentially unremarkable.
Cranial nerves II through XII were intact.  Strength was
normal and equal at 5/5 bilaterally.  Deep tendon reflexes
were within normal limits bilaterally with the exception of
bilaterally absent ankle jerks, and the plantar response was
downgoing.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   Due to the clinical findings the patient
was admitted to the hospital on the morning of [**2169-8-16**]; at which time he was taken to the operating room where
he underwent a transcallosal craniotomy for excision of a
third ventricle tumor which was found on preoperative
studies.  The frozen section final pathology reports showed
the third ventricle tumor to be consistent with metastatic
tumor (renal cell primary).

The patient was admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit
for postoperative management.  He was noted to be aphasic and
essentially moot for the first several days; also with a mild
hemiparesis.  He remained in this neurologic condition for
several days, but his cardiopulmonary status gradually
improved to the point where he was subsequently discharged
from the Intensive Care Unit to the hospital floor.

However, on [**8-25**], he was readmitted to the Intensive
Care Unit due to desaturations, and aspiration, and a recent
change in mental status while out on the hospital floor.
Therefore, he spent the next several days in the Intensive
Care Unit for management of aspiration and related
complications.

Long discussions were taken with the wife due to the gravity
of the metastatic disease.  Eventually, the decision was made
to consider do not resuscitate/do not intubate orders due to
the patient's lack of clinical progress after several more
days in the Intensive Care Unit, and the gradual realization
that his neurologic condition would not improve subsequently
and he would not return to normal function or to his
preoperative status, and that it would be against his wishes
to continue to maintain intubation and further aggressive
care in light of the prognosis and diagnosis.

Therefore, the patient was extubated on [**2169-9-5**] and
transferred to the medical surgical floor.  He remained on
comfort measures and supportive care throughout the remainder
of his hospitalization, and the patient subsequently was
found to be deceased at 2:05 a.m. on [**2169-9-13**] with
no evidence of pupillary reaction.  The pupils were fixed and
dilated.  There was no response to stimulation, no
spontaneous respirations, no spontaneous pulse or heart
sounds, and the patient was declared deceased at 2:05 a.m. on
[**2169-9-13**].






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 125**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 342**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 343**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 22907**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2169-9-29**]  11:45
T:  [**2169-10-5**]  07:59
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
