Admission Date:  [**2153-10-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2153-10-25**]


Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain and irritation.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Of note the history of present
illness is from outside hospital records and the family of
the patient was unable to provide a history directly to the
team.

The patient is an 86 year-old man with a history of atrial
fibrillation, hypertension who had chest pain early in the
early morning hours on [**2153-10-11**] with intermittent
symptoms over a 24 hour period with radiation to both arms.
The patient initially ignored his symptoms believing
indigestion.  The patient went to bed and then woke with
shortness of breath and dialed 911.  The patient became
unresponsive upon arrival to the Emergency Department.  The
patient had been brought to [**Hospital6 **] System and was
emergently intubated.  After evaluation there the patient was
transferred here for cardiac catheterization and arrived on
intravenous nitro drip, heparin drip as well as after
receiving a dose of per rectal aspirin.  Of note the records
transferred with the patient from [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital noted
the rhythm on route to the hospital by EMT was sinus
tachycardia with multiple premature ventricular contractions.
Electrocardiogram done there showed evidence of acute
inferior postural lateral myocardial infarction.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Atrial fibrillation.
3.  Coronary artery disease.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS PER OUTSIDE HOSPITAL:  The patient had been on
some doses of Atenolol, Procardia and Warfarin, which the
doses are not clear.  Attempts to contact the transferring
physician at [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital were unsuccessful.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a veteran of World War II,
living at home at the time and main contact is his daughter.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

The patient was transferred emergently to the catheterization
laboratory and underwent cardiac catheterization on the day
of admission.  Cardiac catheterization was notable for 80%
mid segmental lesion of the left anterior descending coronary
artery, 80% lesion in the mid segment of the right coronary
artery and also a mid occlusion within the left circumflex
with obvious thrombus.  A wire was crossed without difficulty
across the left circumflex lesion, angiojet thrombectomy
times two was performed and stenting with [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] coat stent
was performed.  Further intervention for the right coronary
artery lesion was deferred and the patient was returned to
the Coronary Care Unit.  Cardiac output during the procedure
was 3.78 with index of 1.91.  The mean capillary wedge
pressure was 21, the mean right atrial pressure was 11.
Approximately 190 cc of Optiray contrast was used during the
procedure.

Upon arrival to the Coronary Care Unit after cardiac
catheterization the patient's initial vital signs were
temperature 97.2, blood pressure 105/58, respirations 16 and
the patient was breathing on ventilator set at assist
control, tidal volume set at 500, respiratory rate 16 with
PEEP setting of 5 and FIO2 60%.  The patient was
noncommunicative and sedated, though was noted to move and
respond to touch and pain.  He is a well developed elderly
man otherwise intubated and sedated.  Pupils are equal, round
and reactive to light.  Mucous membranes are moist.  There is
no obvious adenopathy.  Neck was supple.  JVP is estimated to
be 9 to 10 cm.  Lung examination was omitted by ventilator
noise, but otherwise clear on examination.  Normal S1 and S2
on examination.  Abdomen was notable for obese, soft abdomen,
positive bowel sounds.  ............ intact and ..........
hematoma.  No obvious blood.  Extremities notable for 2+
bilateral lower extremity edema and no mean palpable dorsalis
pedis pulses bilaterally.

Initial laboratories, white blood cell count was 15,
hematocrit 43 and platelets are 292.  The electrolytes were
within normal limits.  Of note cardiac enzymes, the patient
had a peak CK of over 11,000 on presentation and peak MB
greater then 500 with a peak troponin greater then 25.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was continued on Plavix 75 mg a
day, 325 daily aspirin as well as Atorvastatin 10.  He was
continued on Metoprolol 25 mg twice a day and Captopril 25 mg
three times a day and also on a heparin drip initially at
1000 units per hour for a PTT goal of 60 - 100 seconds.

Her plan is of right coronary artery lesion on subsequent
days.  The patient had a transthoracic echocardiogram on
admission and EF was 30%.  There was noted left atrial
............ dilatation as well as decreased right
ventricular systolic function.  There was also 1+ aortic
regurgitation, 4+ mitral regurgitation, 3+ tricuspid
regurgitation, but no effusion as well as moderate pulmonary
hypertension.  The patient's rhythm was noted to be in atrial
fibrillation as consistent with his past medical history.
Current ventilator settings were kept on the first day with
plans for extubation on day two pending his blood gases.

Other events, the patient successfully extubated on [**2153-10-13**], however, on the evening of the subsequent day on
[**10-14**], the patient had an episode of ventricular
tachycardia and required 300 joule shock and
was shocked back into sinus rhythm.  Further ventricular
tachycardia as well as mental status changes and is
reintubated.  Received a further 300 joule shock and
then was put on Amiodarone at 1 mg per hour as well as
Lidocaine drip with 1 mg per kilogram bolus and then 1
microgram per hour and required sedation Propofol.
Subsequently became hypotensive required Dopamine to support
his blood pressure.  Right IJ line was placed.  The patient
underwent intervention of his RC lesion on [**2153-10-15**].
The lesion was successfully intervened on with [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] coat
stent.  Cardiac output initially was 2.72 with an index of
1.37. The mean capillary wedge pressure was 36, mean RA
pressure 16 and a total of 190 cc obturator was used for this
procedure.  Of note, the LCX lesion intervened on a few days
prior was also found to be widely patent at this time and
intact. The patient also because of the poor cardiac index an
intra-aortic balloon pump was placed to help maintain cardiac
output and perfusion.  Subsequently the inotropic support
successfully weaned off and the balloon was gradually weaned
off and this continued altogether on the [**10-19**].

Subsequently, however, the patient's mental status failed to
improved despite decreasing the patient's ventilator
settings.  Attempts to keep the patient off all Propofol
sedation prior to weaning attempts were unsuccessful
initially even despite aggressive diuresis.  The patient was
successfully extubated on the [**10-23**] at 6:00 p.m.
and was placed on a neb mask requiring Haldol for agitation.
 However, subsequent to extubation the patient's neurological
status failed to improve despite being off sedation and
minimal amounts of Haldol for agitation.  During this whole
time the patient's proxy his daughter had been contact[**Name (NI) **] and
determination of her father's wishes were he were to speak
for himself was slowly formulated.  After a family meeting on
the [**2153-10-24**] the family decided the patient did
not want sustained mechanical support.  The patient's status
was never made DNR/DNI.  The patient also at this time
developed increasing white blood cell count with left shift
and bandemia and also temperatures to 101.9.  Blood and urine
sputum cultures have remained negative at this point.  There
was one out of four bottles of blood cultures positive for
coag staphylococcus and these were believed to be cutaneous
contamination that failed to appear on subsequent cultures.
The patient was put on Zosyn for sepsis with approval from
infectious disease, however, continued to spike fevers and
leukocytosis at this time.  Levofloxacin was initially added
and discontinued.  Concern for MRSA was raised and so the
patient was given Vancomycin, which was subsequently renally
dosed, because of the patient's increased BUN and creatinine.

T