Admission Date:  [**2166-3-26**]     Discharge Date:  [**2166-4-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2095-8-1**]     Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  This 70-year-old female presented with a
chief complaint of acute renal failure, digoxin toxicity,
anemia, urosepsis, and hypotension to the Fenard Intensive
Care Unit.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 70-year-old female with a past
medical history of congestive heart failure, biventricular
failure, ejection fraction of 30%, MAT, status post left knee
replacement in [**2158**], perforated duodenal ulcer in [**2164**],
psoriasis, eczema, depression, chronic lower extremity edema,
obesity, recurrent lower extremity cellulitis, rheumatoid
arthritis, interstitial lung disease on 3 liters of home O2,
hypothyroidism, steroid-induced hyperglycemia, presents with
being chronically ill and bedbound secondary to pain over the
past month, decreasing po intake and increasing fatigue and
weakness.

She fell the night prior to admission on her left elbow and
right foot with both with large hematomas.  She had no
evidence of seizure, no chest pain, no shortness of breath,
no loss of consciousness, and no head trauma.  Her daughter
was there and witnessed it.  She denied any fevers, chills,
or sweats.  No nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, no dysuria, no
headache, no melena, no bright red blood per rectum.  She
continues to complain of severe buttock pain.

In the Emergency Room, her vital signs were a temperature of
96.4, pulse of 54, blood pressure 139/60, respiratory rate
18, and sating 96% on 3 liters.  Her systolic blood pressures
dropped to the 50s and was given 1 liter of IV fluid.  Her
sats also decreased and improved with 5 liters of O2.  She
bradied down and was given 1 mg of atropine and 10 mg of
dopamine to help her blood pressure.  She was started on
levofloxacin and Flagyl.  She received 100 mEq of potassium
chloride and 20 mEq of potassium chloride.

In the Emergency Department, she received a total of 1200 cc
of normal saline.

ALLERGIES:  Keflex, Ambien, lorazepam, diclox.

OUTSIDE HOME MEDICATIONS:
1. Fosamax once a week.
2. Prevacid.
3. Simethicone.
4. Insulin.
5. Lopressor.
6. Lasix.
7. Prednisone.
8. Synthroid.
9. Digoxin.
10. Potassium chloride.
11. Arava.
12. Leucovorin.
13. Methotrexate.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Wheelchair bound, family very involved.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, she was febrile at
101.0, blood pressure of 119/68, heart rate 95-105,
respiratory rate 20, and sating 96% on room air.  Anxious and
uncomfortable.  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils are equal,
round, and reactive to light.  Equal ocular eye movements.
Dry mucous membranes.  Tachycardic S1, S2, irregularly,
irregular.  Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No
wheezes.  Abdomen is soft and nontender, bowel sounds
present, guaiac negative.  Extremities:  No clubbing or
cyanosis, 1+ bilateral pitting edema.  Derm:  Diffuse
ecchymosis.  Neurologic:  Cranial nerves II through XII are
grossly intact.  Oriented x2.

INITIAL PRESENTATION LABORATORIES:  Pertinent for a sodium of
126, potassium 2.7, creatinine of 1.5, baseline of 0.5.
Digoxin is 3.7, and a complete blood count with a white count
of 10.8 with a differential of 91 neutrophils, 5 bands, 32
for hematocrit, and platelet count of 57.

LENI was negative.  Chest x-ray showed chronic interstitial
disease.  Hip and knee films were negative for fracture.

Patient was admitted for Intensive Care Unit.  Her
hypertension did not really improve with continued IV fluids,
stress dosed steroids as she was on chronic steroids and
continued on dopamine.  Urosepsis was treated with
levofloxacin.  Acute renal failure improved somewhat.
Digoxin toxicity resolved with holding her medications.  Her
hyponatremia and hypokalemia improved.  The patient remained
in the Intensive Care Unit until the 22nd, and at that point
on the evening prior to being called back to the floor, the
patient had a family meeting with the team and her family
members, and at that point the family and the patient decided
they would like to switch her code status to comfort measures
only.

Patient was called out to the floor on [**2166-4-1**] at about 2 in
the afternoon and was pronounced at 3:15 pm.  The patient's
family was notified as was the attending.

CAUSE OF DEATH:  Urosepsis.




                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5837**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8285**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor First Name 93938**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2166-4-1**]  17:35
T:  [**2166-4-4**]  06:26
JOB#:  [**Job Number 93939**]
