Admission Date: [**2197-5-22**]        Discharge Date: [**2197-6-2**]

Date of Birth:  [**2123-4-14**]        Sex:  M

Service:  MED


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74 year old
male with a past medical history significant for alcohol and
tobacco abuse without any known coronary artery disease who
presented to [**Hospital 41498**] Hospital on [**2197-5-18**] with chest
pain and was found to have an anterior ST elevation
myocardial infarction with ST elevations in V1 through V3 and
dynamic T wave inversions, V4 through V6, creatinine kinase
of 555, and the patient underwent cardiac catheterization and
was found to have three vessel disease, specifically totally
occluded left anterior descending coronary artery stent
status post technically difficult percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty and stenting, 80 percent left circumflex
coronary artery, 90 percent right coronary artery stenosis.
The patient had an echocardiogram performed which showed an
ejection fraction of 40 percent.  The patient's peak
creatinine kinase was 1850 and troponin I was greater than
50.  The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course at the outside hospital
was complicated by atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular
response at a rate of 150s.  The patient was started on
Amiodarone drip and continued having interrupted chest pain.
The patient was therefore started on Nitro drip, Aspirin,
Plavix, Aggrastat, beta blocker, ACE inhibitor and was
transferred to [**Hospital6 256**] for
further intervention.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Alcohol abuse.  2.  Tobacco use.  3.  Chronic back pain.
   4.  Peptic ulcer disease.  5.  Depression.


ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Heparin drip, Nitroglycerin drip,
Aggrastat drip, Amiodarone drip, aspirin, Lipitor 20,
Lopressor 25 t.i.d., Protonix 40, Captopril 12.5 q.i.d.,
Multivitamins, thiamine, Folate, Plavix, Percocet.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Smoking two packs per day for many years.
Alcohol use.  The patient uses Vodka every other day plus
drank six days solid prior to presentation.  No history of
delirium tremens or seizures.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission
revealed temperature 99.6, blood pressure 103/53, heart rate
74, respiratory rate 25, 99 percent on 4 liters.  Generally,
lying flat in bed in no apparent distress.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat, pupils are equal, round and reactive to
light and accommodation.  Extraocular muscles intact.  Moist
mucous membranes.  Neck, no visible jugular venous
distension, no carotid bruits.  Chest, bibasilar crackles,
otherwise clear to auscultation.  Cardiovascular, no murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  Normal S1 and S2.  Regular rate and rhythm.
Abdomen, positive bowel sounds, obese, nontender,
nondistended.  Extremities, trace edema, good peripheral
pulses.  Right groin ecchymosis.  No hematoma.  No right
femoral bruit.  Neurologically alert and oriented times
three, no asterixes.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory data on admission revealed white
count 10.2, hematocrit 30.7, platelets 205, creatinine kinase
45, sodium 133, potassium 4.9, chloride 96, bicarbonate 23,
BUN 28, creatinine 1.7, glucose 167, INR 1.4, PTT 64.4, ALT
88, AST 65, alkaline phosphatase 152, total bilirubin 0.8,
calcium 8.4, phosphorus 4.3 and magnesium 2.3.
Electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm of 72
beats/minute, normal axis and intervals.  Q waves in 2, 3 and
AVF.  [**Street Address(2) 4793**] elevations in 3, [**Street Address(2) 1766**] elevations in V1, [**Street Address(2) 28585**] elevation in V2, T wave inversion V3 and V4.
Echocardiogram at the outside hospital showing an ejection
fraction of 40 percent, mid greater than distal anteroseptal
and apical hypokinesis, mild tricuspid regurgitation, mild
mitral regurgitation and mild aortic regurgitation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Acute coronary syndrome - Initially the
patient was continued on aspirin, Plavix, Aggrestat drip and
heparin drip.  Several hours after admission the patient
experienced another episode of chest pain.  Electrocardiogram
showed diffuse ST elevations concerning for development of
pericarditis or pericardial effusion.  Echocardiogram was
performed and showed large pericardial effusion with evidence
of right atrial collapse and questionable early tamponade.
The patient remained hemodynamically stable and was not
hypotensive or tachycardiac.  In order to further evaluate
the urgency of the pericardiocentesis, left subclavian Swan-
Ganz catheter was placed, uneventfully and showed
equalization of pressures.  The patient was taken to the
Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory emergently, however,
several attempts of pericardiocentesis in the Cardiac
Catheterization Laboratory were unsuccessful.  The patient
became hypodynamically unstable, was intubated for airway
protection and had an intra-aortic balloon pump placed.  The
patient was taken emergently to the Operating Room and had
undergone surgical pericardiotomy with evacuation of
pericardial effusion/clot.  The patient left the Operating
Room with a pericardial and pleural drain and went to the
Surgical Service for observation for the next several days.
In the time of pericardiotomy no surgical revascularization
was performed since the patient was on Aggrestat prior to the
procedure.

The patient was monitored in the Cardiac Surgery Recovery
Unit and had several episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation
with associated hypotension, transiently requiring pressors.
Attempted cardioversion Type 3 was unsuccessful.  The patient
had Amiodarone drip restarted and then as switched to oral
Amiodarone with subsequent conversion to sinus rhythm.  The
patient was taken again to the Cardiac Catheterization
Laboratory on [**2197-5-25**], for intervention on right
coronary artery and left circumflex.  The catheterization
revealed 70 percent occlusion of right coronary artery and 99
percent mid right coronary artery occlusion, normal left
main, normal proximal left anterior descending coronary
artery and he has had a total five stents placed in the mid
right coronary artery, proximal right coronary artery of the
ostium, distal posterior lateral right coronary artery with
two overlapping stents as well as obtuse marginal 1.  The
patient tolerated the procedure well.  Bivalirudin was used
during the procedure.  The patient was transferred back to
the Critical Care Unit for further care with intra-aortic
balloon pump in place at 1:1 mode.

The following morning, the patient had no palpable distal
pulses on his right lower extremity.  Interventional
cardiology fellow was called emergently.  Intra-aortic
balloon pump was removed and the patient was urgently taken
for an angiogram and vascular intervention.  Angiogram
revealed left external iliac clot.  His left external iliac
artery was stented, left popliteal clot that was unable to be
opened percutaneously.  The patient subsequently went to the
Operating Room for emergent embolectomy that was successful
in restoration of blood flow to his left limb.  The patient
tolerated the procedure well and returned back to the
Intensive Care Unit for further supportive care.

From the ischemia standpoint, the patient is status post
stage revascularization of three vessel disease.  The patient
was continued on aspirin, Plavix and Atorvastatin.  Captopril
was introduced and was titrated to the level that was
tolerated.  Beta blocker was also added and titrated as
tolerated.  The patient had no evidence of further ongoing
ischemia.

Pump - Heparin was restarted after popliteal embolectomy.
The patient remained on heparin drip and Coumadin was
subsequently started several days thereafter.  The patient's
indication for anticoagulation includes paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation as well as severe left ventricular dysfunction
and global hypokinesis following myocardial infarction.  The
patient's echocardiogram on [**2197-5-26**] showed an ejection
fraction of 25 to 30 percent, mild left atrial enlargement,
severe global left ventricular hypokinesis with severely
depressed systolic function.

Rhythm - The patient was in and out of rapid atrial
fibrillation.  Amiodarone drip was weaned off