Admission Date:  [**2128-9-4**]     Discharge Date:  [**2128-9-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2067-10-24**]     Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypotension.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 60-year-old
white female with a history of congestive heart failure and
diabetes who comes in with hypotension, renal failure, and
hypercalcemia.

The patient was previously admitted in [**2128-7-19**] with
a similar complaint and treatment for hypovolemia and found
to have Klebsiella, Staphylococcus aureus, [**Female First Name (un) 564**]
bacteremia.  Later found to have an elevated INR with
guaiac-positive stool.  Her hematocrit had fallen, and the
patient was given one unit of packed red blood cells.  The
patient went to the Emergency Department but refused to stay.

The patient came to the Emergency Department today because of
feeling "lightheaded."  Notes having diarrhea today.  Not
watery.  Reports being constipated in the past five days.
The patient denies melena, hematochezia, nausea, or vomiting.
She reports initially feeling lightheaded when standing up
which improved with time.  Also started having an increase in
bowel movements which were black in color.  The patient
denies paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or orthopnea.  She has
increased swelling in the legs.  No chest pain or shortness
of breath.  Continues dopamine infusion at home.  She denies
fevers, chills, cough, abdominal pain, or dysuria.

Over the past week the patient had black stool one week ago
and then took Imodium which resolved her symptoms.  The
patient has been taking potassium supplements as well.  In
the Emergency Department, the patient's potassium was found
to be 7.4.  She was given calcium, insulin, glucose, and
Kayexalate times two.  She was continued on vancomycin, and
levofloxacin, and Flagyl bolused with one liter of normal
saline.  Her initial blood pressure was 52/30s.  Nasogastric
lavage was negative.  The patient was admitted to the
Coronary Care Unit team for further workup.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease; status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2120**] and myocardial infarction in [**2120**].
Coronary artery bypass graft plus mitral valve repair in
[**2120**], internal mammary artery with coronary artery disease,
saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal, saphenous vein graft
to right posterior descending artery.
2.  Chronic congestive heart failure (on home dopamine) and
biventricular pacers.  Ejection fraction around 20%.  Stress
MIBI revealed severe inferior and lateral wall defects,
fixed.
3.  Diabetes mellitus.
4.  History of gastrointestinal bleed and arteriovenous
malformation, status post cautery in [**2128-2-17**].  Her
baseline hematocrit is around 30%.
5.  Chronic renal insufficiency (with a baseline creatinine
of 1.3 to 1.4).
6.  Peripheral vascular disease: known total occlusion
abdominal aorta.  7.  SP mCoagulase-negative line infection.
8.  Mitral valve replacement: mechanical prosthetic valve
requiring coumadin.
9.  DDD pacer, with atrial tachycardia recent revision.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: IV dopamine 8 mcg per kg per min,
enalapril, spironolactone, carvedilol, lasix, bumex
intermittant. Antidepressants as noted on recent dc summary.
Coumadin, adjusted per INR. Aspirin. Statin.

ALLERGIES:  LOPRAZOLAM, SULFA, CODEINE, and CECLOR, and
CEPHALEXIN.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her husband.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Initial physical
examination revealed the patient's heart rate was 80, she was
afebrile, her blood pressure was 88/50, her respiratory rate
was 18, and her oxygen saturation was 100% on 2 liters nasal
cannula.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed sclerae were anicteric.  Pupils were equal, round,
and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular
movements were intact.  The mucous membranes were moist.  The
neck was supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  Jugular venous
pulsation at 12 cm.  No bruits auscultated.  Pulmonary
examination revealed no wheezes or crackles anteriorly.
Cardiovascular examination revealed normal first heart sounds
and second heart sounds with a systolic click.  The abdomen
was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  No
hepatosplenomegaly.  Positive bowel sounds.  Extremity
examination revealed 1+ edema in the lower extremities with
diffuse chronic mottled appearance in the lower extremities.
Neurologic examination revealed the patient was alert and
oriented times three.  Cranial nerves II through XII were
grossly intact.  No focal motor deficits.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory
values on admission revealed the patient's white blood cell
count was 8.7, the patient's hematocrit was 27.5, and her
platelets were 194, and her mean cell volume was 88.  INR was
2.2 and partial thromboplastin time was 32.6.  Sodium was
127, potassium was 7.4, blood urea nitrogen was 75, and
creatinine was 2.7.  Alkaline phosphatase was 79, total
bilirubin was 0.3, ALT was 13, AST was 22, amylase was 67,
and her lipase was 39.  Albumin was 3.9.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Prior echocardiogram in
[**2128-7-19**] revealed moderate tricuspid regurgitation,
ejection fraction of 20%, right ventricular function
decreased, right ventricle mildly dilated, severe left
ventricular global hypokinesis, right atrial dilatation, LA.
Mechanical mitral valve without overt masses.
A chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly and pacemaker.  No
evidence of infiltrates or evidence of volume overload.

Electrocardiogram revealed a rate of 60s, paced, with a
atypical bundle-branch block pattern.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   The
patient was admitted for lightheadedness, increase in bowel
movements, with questionable melena, and hyperkalemia.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  Ischemia:  No evidence of
ischemia.  Has a history of a fixed perfusion deficits.  The
patient was continued with statin.  Aspirin was initially
held in light of gastrointestinal bleed.  The patient was
continued with ACE inhibitor.  Chronic IV dopamine was
continued.
The patient was continued on carvedilol and diuresed with
appropriate electrolyte management.  Followed potassium and
creatinine function.

The patient was initially increased on dopamine drip to 10
mcg/kg per minute with an eventual wean to home baseline of 8
mcg/kg per minute with appropriate maintenance of her blood
pressure; per her baseline.  In addition, the patient was
transfused one unit of packed red blood cells for hematocrit
elevation to greater than 30.

2.  HEMATOLOGIC ISSUES:  In terms of the patient's fall in
hematocrit, nasogastric lavage was negative.  Given the
patient's prior history of arteriovenous malformation, an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed.  This revealed
pinpoint bleeding in the second part of the duodenum which
was cauterized with appropriate post procedural hemostasis.
The patient's hematocrit remained stable status post
procedure at 29 to 30.

The patient was discharged with guaiac cards to follow with
three serial stool samples to be brought to her next
follow-up visit.  Given the need for anticoagulation,
Coumadin was restarted with a modified goal INR of 2 to 3.  In
addition, the risks of an aspirin was less significant than
her need for her significant cardiac history and was
continued on aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day along with a
proton pump inhibitor.  The patient was to be monitored in
two days for appropriate INR therapy.  Given the patient's
recent antibiotic therapy, this was felt to have contributed
to her elevated INR and will need to be monitored closely as
she is currently off her fluoroquinolones.

3.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION/RENAL ISSUES:  The
patient's increased creatinine was likely acute prerenal
azotemia from acute GI bleed in setting of chronic poor
perfusion.  The patient's
weight was monitored and bolused appropriately.  Blood and
urine electrolytes were monitored maintaining even fluid
status.  Increased dopamine for proper renal perfusion.
Spironolactone was held acutely in light of hyperkalemia.  As
well, potassium supplements were held.  The patient's
creatinine
subsequently improved with good diuresis to 2.7 to 2.1.  At
the t