Admission Date: [**2188-11-12**]        Discharge Date: [**2188-11-22**]

Date of Birth:  [**2164-12-27**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


BRIEF CLINICAL HISTORY:  Ms. [**Known lastname 59870**] is a 23 year old Haitian
woman who presented originally to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit on [**2188-11-12**], with approximately two to three
week history of mid sternal chest discomfort which had been
treated with codeine.  Circumstances surrounding the
patient's presentation were somewhat confusion and
contradicted at various times by the patient and various
family members.  What is known is that within three to four
days of the patient's presentation to [**Hospital6 649**] she had arrived from [**Country 2045**] on apparently a
legal visa.  Soon after arriving she began experiencing
shortness of breath, dyspnea and intermittent fever and
chills.  What is unclear is how long she had been having
these problems.  She had had a prescription for codeine which
she had taken with her.  While she did endorse that the
symptoms became worse during her flight, it was generally
agreed that there was a prodrome that superceded her flight.
Upon her presentation to the Emergency Department on the
afternoon of the 17th the patient was complaining of
shortness of breath, dyspnea and increasing bilateral lower
extremity swelling.  She had had a productive cough for at
least the last 48 hours, being described as yellow to green
sputum.  She did describe fevers and denied any night sweats.

PRIOR MEDICAL HISTORY:  Asthma.

Unclear history of a resection of the neck mass, apparently
in the [**Country 13622**] Republic although this was never entirely
clear.

ALLERGIES:  Aspirin causes eye swelling in eyes.

MEDICATIONS:  Codeine exact prescription unknown.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient has a sister with [**Name2 (NI) 14165**] cell
disease and is thought to have [**Name2 (NI) 14165**] cell trait.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient was endorsed that she had been
sexually active in the past but denies unprotected
intercourse.  Denies intravenous drug use, alcohol or
tobacco.  As previously mentioned, the patient is a recently
emigrated Haitian.  She joined her brother and sister here in
the United States and leaves a mother in [**Country 2045**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Upon presentation to the Emergency
Department, the patient is described as a somewhat frail-
appearing Haitian woman in some distress.  She had a
temperature maximum and temperature currently of 97.8
degrees.  She was extremely tachycardiac at 170 beats per
minute.  Blood pressure was 142/100.  Respirations 30s,
sating 100 percent on a nonrebreather mask but 91 percent on
room air.  In general, she was pale and cachectic using
accessory muscles for breathing.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat examination showed dry mucous membranes and unable to
visualize posterior discs.  Neck is supple, there is,
however, a small 1 cm scar seen on the left side, no evidence
of any thyromegaly or anterior or posterior lymph node chain
adenopathy.  Chest shows decreased breath sounds bilaterally
but in particular on the left side.  There are coarse
crackles throughout bilaterally.  Cardiac examination is
tachycardiac, no evidence of any murmurs, rubs or gallops.
Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended with positive bowel
sounds.  Extremities, show 2 plus lower extremity edema.

LABORATORY RESULTS ON PRESENTATION:  Sodium 135, potassium
8.8, chloride 100, carbon dioxide 23, BUN 10, creatinine 0.5,
glucose 92, white blood cell count 14.4, hematocrit 26.9,
platelets 720, lactate 1.2, liver function tests pending at
the time of admission.

Radiology:  The patient had a patchy interstitial
infiltrates, left side greater than right with left pleural
effusions as well as some poorly differentiated pleural
thickening throughout.

BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE:  Based on the patient's initial
presentation, it was thought that her presentation was a most
likely acute and chronic etiology.  Scenarios considered were
pneumonia, pulmonary embolism secondary to recent air travel,
severe asthma.  Given the tachypnea and poor oxygenation, the
patient was admitted directly to the Cardiac Intensive Care
Unit.  There she was made a full code.  Shortly after
arrival, therapeutic thoracentesis was performed.  This
removed greater than 250 mm of serosanguinous fluid from the
left side.  There was some improvement in her pulmonary
function thereafter.  Within two hours of presentation to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit the patient became tachypneic and
arterial blood gases showed increasing difficulty with
oxygenation.  She was shortly intubated thereafter with
confirmation of placement of an endotracheal tube via chest x-
ray.  Bronchoscopy performed soon thereafter likewise showed
good placement of her endotracheal tube.  Aspiration showed a
large amount of purulent, sometimes bloody material within
the lung parenchyma.

Thereafter the patient's presentation became increasingly
consistent with aseptic etiology.  She was started on Zigress
per the sepsis protocol.  By morning, her respiratory status
had worsened and again there became increasing problems with
oxygenation.  Initial consultation by Cardiac Surgery for
possible extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was obtained and
Cardiac Surgery deemed the patient an appropriate candidate
and emphasized their readiness to perform procedure as
necessary.  This initial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
evaluation took place on [**2188-11-13**].  However, the
decision was made to delay extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation over night and to reassess in the morning.

By hospital day Number 2, the patient's presentation had
evolved to florid sepsis.  Human immunodeficiency virus tests
as well as critical stem tests had all come back negative.
By mid morning, the patient had been maxing out all of her
ventilation possibilities and oxygenation was still extremely
challenged.  Bedside echocardiogram showed evidence of a
large pericardial effusion.  It was not clear if this was
secondary to the pneumonia, pulmonary embolism or other
etiology.  Cardiology was consulted and the decision was made
to do a pericardiocentesis.  The procedure was performed at
the bedside under ultrasound guidance.  During this maneuver,
there was some damage noted to the right ventricle, most
likely secondary to a large dilated ventricle in the setting
of high right-sided pressures.  The patient was taken
emergently to the Operating Room.  In the Operating Room a
midline sternotomy was performed and a pericardial tamponade
was repaired.  During the course of this repair, several
lesions in the surface of the heart and lungs were noted.
These were biopsied intraoperatively. Initial intraoperative
pathology showed pathology consistent with neuroendocrine
carcinoma, again highly unusual for a woman of this age and
this presentation.  Given the unclear etiology of these
lesions and the patient's overall presentation, decision was
made to continue aggressive treatment and while in the
Operating Room the patient was catheterized per the right
femoral vein and artery and extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation was started.

The patient at that time was transferred to the
Cardiothoracic Surgery Unit and her care team was transferred
from the Medical Service to the Cardiac Surgery Service under
the care of Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 70**].  Over the next 48 hours, the
patient remained reasonably stable on extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation.  Her oxygenation was maintained.  A chest x-ray
showed a gradually improving lung field, although the
starting point from this was complete whiteout of both
fields.  A single sputum culture did show Streptococcus
pneumonia.  The patient was started empirically on
Vancomycin, Ceftriaxone and Levofloxacin.  While on
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, the patient's sedation
was lightened intermittently and she was confirmed to be able
to move all four extremities.  She likewise underwent daily
bronchoscopy and several mucous plugs and purulent material
was removed from her lungs.

On hospital day 5 through 7, intense review of the surgical
samples was undergone by the 