Admission Date:  [**2114-1-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2114-1-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2056-10-30**]     Sex:  F

Service:  O-MED

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 57-year-old
female with a history of morbid obesity, inflammatory breast
cancer, status post chemotherapy, and cardiomyopathy with
systolic and diastolic dysfunction who was sent to the
Emergency Department from her primary care physician's office
secondary to fevers and shortness of breath times two days.

The patient states she awoke on the night prior to admission
feeling very short of breath with fevers and chills.  There
was no chest pain or palpitations.  No diaphoresis.  She
denies a cough.  She is also complaining of pain in her left
knee which is chronic and unchanged.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was noted to have a
temperature of 100.8 degrees Fahrenheit and was saturating
94% on 4 liters.  She was treated with meter-dosed inhaler
and nebulizers in addition to levofloxacin for a questionable
left retrocardiac opacity on chest x-ray.  Her subsequent
temperature was 103.7 degrees Fahrenheit.  Her blood pressure
decreased from 159/86 on admission to Emergency Department to
99/69 when a Medical Intensive Care Unit evaluation was
called.  At that time, the patient was 100% nonrebreather.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Morbid obesity.
 2.  Obstructive sleep apnea (on [**Hospital1 **]-level positive airway
pressure).
 3.  Hypoventilation (on home oxygen).
 4.  Cardiomyopathy (with an ejection fraction of 30% and
global right ventricular hypokinesis with a right ventricular
ejection fraction of 32% on a Mobitz scan obtained in [**2113-11-15**]).
 5.  Inflammatory breast cancer diagnosed in [**2113-6-15**].
ERP negative.  Bone scan in [**2113-6-15**] was negative.  On
Taxol and Herceptin.
 6.  History of abnormal Papanicolaou smear.
 7.  Hypertension.
 8.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 9.  Depression.
10.  Anemia.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN (causes hives).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a rehabilitation resident.
She quit tobacco 23 years ago.  The patient denies alcohol or
intravenous drug use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
per Intensive Care Unit note on admission the patient's
temperature was 97.4 degrees Fahrenheit, her blood pressure
was 85/52, her heart rate was 92, her respiratory rate was
25, and her oxygen saturation was 98% on 4 liters.  In
general, the patient was morbidly obese.  She spoke in short
sentences.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed the head was normocephalic and atraumatic.  The
pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.  The oropharynx was clear.  The mucous
membranes were moist.  The neck was supple.  Chest revealed
distant breath sounds.  There were no wheezes.
Cardiovascular examination revealed tachycardia.  No murmurs,
rubs, or gallops.  There were distant heart sounds.  The
abdomen was obese, soft, nontender, and nondistended.  There
were positive bowel sounds.  Extremity examination revealed
2+ pitting edema to the knees bilaterally.  No palpable
cords.  Skin examination revealed left breast with erythema.
No rashes were noted.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Admission white
blood cell count was 5.6 and her hematocrit was 32.7 (with
18% bands).  D-dimer was greater than 10,000.  Blood culture
revealed no growth.  Urine culture revealed no growth.
Legionella antigen was negative.  Alanine-aminotransferase
was 15, aspartate aminotransferase was 15, alkaline
phosphatase was 28, and her total bilirubin was 0.9.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Lower extremity noninvasive
studies done on [**2114-1-10**] were negative for deep
venous thrombosis bilaterally.

A V/Q scan on [**1-10**] revealed perfusion only, no defect
noted; however, limited secondary to body habitus.

Admission chest x-ray revealed a left lower lobe
consolidation; question congestive heart failure.

An electrocardiogram revealed sinus tachycardia at a rate of
100.  Normal axis.  First-degree atrioventricular block.
Left atrial enlargement.  No ischemic changes.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   The
patient is a 57-year-old female with a history of
inflammatory breast cancer admitted with shortness of breath,
fever, and hypotension.

The patient was initially admitted to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit for probable sepsis; likely secondary to right
upper lobe consolidation concerning for pneumonia.  Negative
workup for a pulmonary embolism; although suboptimal
secondary to the patient's body habitus.

1.  PNEUMONIA ISSUES:  The patient was noted to have a left
lower lobe consolidation on admission chest x-ray and
received levofloxacin in the Emergency Department.  The
patient was continued on this antibiotic with a plan for a
total of 10 days.

The patient's white blood cell count decreased, and she
remained afebrile on this regimen.

2.  OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA ISSUES:  The patient was
maintained on her home [**Hospital1 **]-level positive airway pressure with
3 liters oxygen.

3.  HYPOTENSION ISSUES:  The patient with an episode of
hypotension while in the Emergency Department prompting a
Medical Intensive Care Unit evaluation.  The patient was
thought to be possibly septic secondary to a presumed
pneumonia.  The patient was continued on levofloxacin and
received intravenous fluids to support her blood pressure.
Her blood pressure stabilized on this regimen, and the
patient was able to be transferred out of the Medical
Intensive Care Unit to the floor.

4.  KNEE PAIN ISSUES:  The patient was complaining of left
knee pain with a history of past imaging in [**2113-6-15**] which
revealed severe joint space narrowing and osteophyte
formation consistent with degenerative changes, but no
evidence of acute fracture.  The patient's pain was managed
with ibuprofen, and no further imaging was obtained during
this admission.

5.  BREAST CANCER ISSUES:  The patient was receiving weekly
Taxol and Herceptin.  No treatment was administered during
her admission.  The patient's staging was limited secondary
to her body habitus.  Thus, it is unclear whether or not
surgery will follow her medication treatment.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Community-acquired pneumonia.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was good. The
patient was saturating well on room air.  Knee pain
controlled with scheduled ibuprofen.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient was to be discharged to an
extended care facility.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Fluoxetine 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Flovent 110-mcg inhaler 2 puffs inhaled twice per day.
 3.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Albuterol inhaler 1 to 2 puffs inhaled q.6h. as needed.
 5.  Levofloxacin 500 mg by mouth once per day (times five
days).
 6.  Ibuprofen 800 mg by mouth q.8h. (times five days).
 7.  Lactulose 30 mL by mouth q.8h. as needed (for
constipation).
 8.  Colace 100 mg by mouth twice per day.
 9.  Senna one tablet by mouth twice per day as needed (for
constipation).
10.  Protonix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
11.  Lisinopril 40 mg by mouth once per day.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOWUP:   The patient was instructed
to follow up with Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] for her next dose of chemotherapy
on [**2114-1-19**].





                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 16520**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 14337**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2114-4-17**]  20:50
T:  [**2114-4-19**]  20:22
JOB#:  [**Job Number 111516**]
