Admission Date:  [**2179-12-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2180-1-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2138-2-22**]       Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 41-year-old
male brought to the Trauma Resuscitation Bay following a
motor vehicle crash involving his vehicle crashing into a
house.  Immediately following the impact, the patient noted
immediate loss of motor and sensory function in his bilateral
lower extremities.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient's only known past medical
history is that of type 2 diabetes mellitus.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

MEDICATIONS:  The patient takes no medications at home.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General: In the trauma bay upon
evaluation, the patient was found to be somnolent with a
degree of combativeness for which he was immediately
intubated.  He was afebrile and hemodynamically stable.
HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and
accommodation with no evidence of obvious head trauma.
Cervical spine was nontender.  Cervical block, collar, and
chest were clear.  Abdomen:  Soft.  Rectal:  He was noted to
have no rectal tone.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On trauma series the patient was noted to
have C4 burst fracture, and C5, C6, and C7 fractures.  He was
noted to have no movement or sensation in his bilateral lower
extremities.  The patient was also noticed to have no
sensation in his abdomen.

For these injuries, the patient was started immediately on
Solu-Medrol infusion per spinal injury protocol.  The patient
was immediately taken for CT scan of his head which revealed
no acute injury and no bleed.  CT of his cervical spine
revealed fractures at C4, C6, T2, and T12, and also most
significantly was his C7 fracture which appeared to be the
worst which showed the vertebral body had been burst into
many pieces.  CT of the abdomen and pelvis was negative.

Neurosurgical consult was immediately obtained.  The patient
was kept on strict C-spine logroll precautions and required
pressor support to keep his systolics greater than 100.  MRI
of the cervical spine showed findings consistent with that of
his CT scan along with significant cord damage in that area.

Over the next few days, the patient's steroid drip was weaned
off, and plans were made for neurosurgical open reduction and
internal fixation stabilization of his cervical and thoracic
spine.  On [**2180-1-2**], the patient was hemodynamically
stable and taken to the Operating Room by the Neurosurgical
Service where a C7 vertebrectomy was performed, a C6-T1
anterior arthrodesis infusion was performed along with
............... interbody titanium surgical ..............
cage was placed which was packed with vertebral autograft.
The patient also received anterior screw with plate fixation.
The patient tolerated the procedure well, and there were no
complications.

The patient was transferred back to the Trauma Surgical
Intensive Care Unit where he remained intubated and was
hemodynamically stable.  The Orthopedic surgeons had
addressed his orthopedic fractures which included a left
wrist fracture and right ankle fracture which were splinted.
The patient was also found to have a right lower lobe
pneumonia with spiking fevers for which antibiotics were
started.

Although initially in the Trauma Bay the patient was noted to
have no sensation in his bilateral lower extremities and
decreased movement of his upper extremities, over the
following few days in the Intensive Care Unit, he began to
move his upper extremities significantly more and began to
become sensate; however, no function appeared to return to
his lower extremities.  His Intensive Care Unit course at
this time remained complicated by several episodes of
ventilator associated pneumonia intermittently requiring
pressors.  The patient underwent several bronchoscopic exams
for removal of secretions and plugs.  Several attempts were
made to wean to extubate which were unsuccessful.  A
nasoenteric feeding tube was placed, and tube feeds were
started with success.

The patient's Intensive Care Unit course continued to be
complicated by multiple episodes of ventilator associated
pneumonia and central line sepsis.  On [**2180-1-7**], the
patient was taken to the Interventional Radiology Suite where
a percutaneous gastrojejunostomy feeding tube was placed.
The patient tolerated the procedure without complication.
Because of the multiple episodes of line sepsis and problems
with central access for this patient, a PICC line was placed;
however, the patient also had spiking fevers following this,
and this PICC line was removed.

Following several attempts at weaning and failures requiring
increased pressure support, on [**2180-1-11**], the patient
underwent bedside percutaneous tracheostomy and bronchoscopy
to verify placement.  He tolerated this procedure well
without complication.  Following this, the patient's tube
feeds were advanced by his percutaneous gastrojejunostomy
tube which he tolerated well.  He slowly became more awake,
and his pressure support wean continued slowly which he was
tolerating well.  The patient underwent speech and swallow
study which revealed that his swallowing mechanism was
intact.

Due to continued spiking temperatures, the patient underwent
a cardiac echocardiogram which revealed no evidence of valve
vegetation.  Following this, all intravenous and
intra-arterial catheters were discontinued in this patient,
and all antibiotics were stopped.  He continued on tube feeds
with a slow ventilator wean.  The patient was pancultured
several times following this which revealed sterile cavities.
The patient also grew one blood culture of methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis; however, this
presumably was the only source of infection, so a course of
Vancomycin was started and completed.

Although the patient had passed speech and swallow study, he
still had copious secretions and was deemed unsafe to begin
p.o. intake.  For this reason, he underwent an additional
bronchoscopy which revealed secretions but non-occluded
airway.

At this point, his ventilatory support decreased.  He began
to slowly wean from the standpoint of his requirement for
pressure support.  He was screened for placement and vent
rehabilitation.  Following this course of Vancomycin, the
patient for the first time in weeks, had become afebrile.  He
began to take small sips of clears and advanced to soft
solids and eventually was taking a regular diet.  After 48
hours or regular diet, the patient was seen to have coughed
and not tolerated some of this, so his p.o. feeds were
discontinued, and his tube feeds were resumed by his PEJ
tube.

On [**2180-1-24**], the patient remained afebrile with
stable vitals signs.  His vent support was at pressure
support of 10, PEEP of 7.5, FIO2 50%.  He was taking tidal
volumes of 650, breathing 22 times a minute.  On exam he was
awake, alert, and oriented times three, and was in no
distress.  He was in a cervical collar without spinal
tenderness.  Heart was regular.  Pulmonary exam showed coarse
breath sounds bilaterally but was oxygenating well, and he
was in no distress.  His abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended.  His PEJ tube site was clean, dry, and intact.
Extremities were edematous but warm and dry with triphasic
Doppler signals and bilateral dorsalis pedis posterior tibial


pulses.  He has no invasive central venous monitoring and no
arterial monitoring.  He is maintained on a peripheral IV
only.

The patient was doing well.  He was screened for discharge
and will be discharged to a ventilatory rehabilitation
facility.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To rehabilitation.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Zoloft 50 mg per PEJ tube q.d.,
Lovenox 40 mg subcue b.i.d., regular Insulin sliding scale,
Zantac 150 mg per PEJ tube b.i.d., Nystatin swish and swallow
5 cc p.o. q.i.d., NPH Insulin 27 U subcue b.i.d., Tylenol 650
mg per PEJ tube q.4-6 hours p.r.n., Albuterol and Atrovent
MDIs 4-6 puffs q.4 hours p.r.n., Lacrilube drops O.U. p.r.n.,
Imodium per PEG tube p.r.n., the patient is receiving tube
feeds Impact with fiber at 80 cc/hr at goal through his PEJ
tube.  It shou