Admission Date:  [**2106-9-1**]       Discharge Date:  [**2106-10-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2049-6-28**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MEDICINE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 57-year-old who
is status post a motor vehicle accident on [**8-31**].  She
was intubated in the field.  Upon arrival to the hospital,
she was found to have a right flailed chest and a
pneumothorax which was small.  Her hip was displaced and
manually reduced, and she was found by ultrasound to have
blood in Morison's Pouch.  She underwent exploratory
laparotomy with discovery of a spleen laceration, and she
underwent a splenectomy.  She had a head CT performed which
showed frontal lobe lesion consistent metastasis.

She had a long hospital course including prolonged intubated,
ARDS, Acinetobacter pneumonia treated with Cephalosporin
which resulted in a rash, and she was subsequently treated
with Gentamicin and Levofloxacin.  The course was completed.
She also had left pleural effusions which were tapped twice.
She also had a right upper extremity deep venous thrombosis
secondary to line placement.  She underwent an IVC filter
placement.  She also had small peripheral pulmonary embolisms
in her chest by CTA scan; however, she is on no
anticoagulation due to the bilateral frontal lobe lesion
consistent with metastasis found in her brain.

Her course was complicated while in the hospital by
coag-negative staph bacteremia.  She was treated with
Vancomycin for ten days.  While in the hospital, she
underwent a chest CT which showed a hilar mediastinal
lymphadenopathy approximately 2 cm in size with abnormal left
upper lobe lesion which was suspicious for small cell cancer
given the patient's long history of smoking.  The patient
underwent MRI of the head to evaluate her frontal lobe lesion
which found frontal lobe lesions which were indicative of
metastatic disease.

The patient was subsequently transferred to the floor on
[**2106-9-27**], at which time she was complaining of no
chest pain, shortness of breath, abdominal pain, nausea, or
vomiting.  She had a small amount of diarrhea but no dysuria
or urinary symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient has a history of
hypertension, depression, anxiety, and bipolar disorder.

ALLERGIES:  TO CEPHALOSPORIN SHE GETS A RASH.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a four pack-per-day smoker for 20
years.  She denied any alcohol use.  She quit three years
ago.  She is divorced and lives with her son.  She denied any
illicit drug use.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Subcutaneous Heparin, Clonidine,
Colace, Miconazole, Neurontin, Combivent, Procrit, Risperdal,
Celexa, Lopressor, Buspar, Premarin, Haldol, Tylenol,
Dulcolax, Morphine, Ativan.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission to the
floor, she had a temperature of 98.3??????, pulse 70.  She had an
oxygen saturation of 94% on 4 L, and she had a blood pressure
of 135/61.  General:  In terms of her physical exam, she had
a depressed affect, otherwise there were no abnormalities.
Lungs:  Examination revealed bibasilar crackles, but she was
moving good air throughout.  Abdomen:  Her belly was benign
with a well-healed laparotomy scar.  It was nontender.
Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Pneumoboots
were in place.  Right upper extremity was tender and
erythematous.  Full range of motion.  She was neurovascularly
intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission to the floor, she did have an
elevated white count of 7.2, but her hematocrit was stable at
42.  Sputum cultures on [**9-23**] were consistent with
many atypical cells, but no malignancy was observed.  MRI
without contrast showed a left frontal temporal lobe at 3.1 x
2.7 cm, heterogeneous enhancing lesion without evidence of
hemorrhage.  There was a left parietal lobe lesion
representing a hemorrhage.  There was no evidence of
ventricular dilatation.  There were multiple enhancing foci
suspicious for metastatic lesions with some mass affect and
shift of the midline.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Malignancy work-up:  The patient was
seen by Pulmonary consult and underwent chest CTA which
showed improvement of the left upper lobe lesion with no
change in the mediastinal lesion.  She underwent an abdomen
and pelvis CT which were negative for evidence of primary
cancer or metastatic disease.  The patient underwent a number
of sputum cultures of which the results were pending on
discharge.  The patient was also seen by Neurosurgery who at
that time were deferring any type of craniotomy or needle
biopsy of brain lesions for diagnosis.

The patient decided to forego any further inpatient work-up
of malignancy and defer to outpatient work-up in order that
she might begin her rehab.

2.  Hematology/DVT:  The patient has a right upper extremity
deep venous thrombosis which was in the setting of a central
line.  She was treated with an IVC filter.  She subsequently
underwent a right upper extremity ultrasound which showed
that the patient still had persistence of clot in the right
upper extremity with no evidence of the clot enlargement or
increase in burden.

The patient was not placed on anticoagulation medication,
i.e. Coumadin or Heparin, due to her brain masses per
Neurosurgery's recommendations for fear of hemorrhage.

3.  Depression/Psychiatry:  The patient continued to have a
flat affect.  While in house she remained and continued on
Risperdal, Celexa, and Buspar.  Psychiatric was consulted,
and the patient was frequently met to discuss her situation.
The patient will follow-up as an outpatient with Psychiatry
and continue her current medication.  Per her discharge, we
are awaiting the results of her thyroid stimulating hormone
test to rule out hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism.

4.  Urinary tract infection:  The patient was found to have a
positive pyuria and bacteria and was subsequently treated
with Bactrim for a 10-day course.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient was adequately stable
with resolution of her right upper extremity edema and
swelling with improvement in her physical ability to walk and
to move around with improvement of her ability to tolerate
pureed foods and with resolution of her requirement for
oxygen to maintain oxygenation on room air.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Status post motor vehicle accident.
2.  Bipolar disorder.
3.  Depression.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Right upper extremity deep venous thrombosis.
6.  Questionable malignancy of unknown origin.

FOLLOW-UP:  The patient will follow-up with primary care
physicians for further work-up of her malignancy.

DISPOSITION:  The patient will be transferred to [**Hospital1 20731**] for rehabilitation work-up.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Nicotine patch, Albuterol, Atrovent,
Nebulizers, Lasix, Haldol 1-2 mg IV q.1-2 hours p.r.n.
agitation, Tylenol 650 mg p.o. p.r. q.6 p.r.n. pain, Dulcolax
10 mg per rectum q.d. for constipation, Buspar 50 mg p.o.
b.i.d., Calcium Carbonate 500 mg p.o. t.i.d., Clonidine,
Risperdal, Celexa, Lopressor, Ativan.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 734**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 735**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) **]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 31245**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2106-10-4**]  11:39
T:  [**2106-10-4**]  11:21
JOB#:  [**Job Number 35518**]
