Admission Date:  [**2196-2-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2196-2-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2159-5-5**]       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Sent to Emergency Department for
hypokalemia, acute renal failure seen on routine screening
labs at the [**Hospital 1902**] Clinic.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 36-year-old
male with dilated cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of
approximately 20% with a history of anterior myocardial
infarction status post PTCA of left anterior descending,
severe diastolic dysfunction, diabetes mellitus type 2,
hypercholesterolemia, recently admitted to [**Hospital6 1760**] on [**2-6**] with acute
renal failure with a creatinine of 6.6 after several days of
nausea and vomiting.

The patient had a Swan-Ganz catheter placed at that time.
The patient was found to be hypokalemic, and intravenous
fluid was given with improvement of creatinine.  Diuretics
were discontinued at discharge; however, the patient
continued taking his 80 mg Lasix p.o. q.d. by accident; he
said that his girlfriend had been giving his medications.  He
did continue taking his ACE inhibitor Lisinopril 20 mg q.d.

His creatinine at discharge during his last hospitalization
was 1.1, and his BUN was 23.  Follow-up labs on [**2-15**]
showed similar numbers.

The patient on follow-up on the 26th on routine labs was
found to have a creatinine of 7.2, BUN 139, and potassium
6.8.  On the day of the clinic visit, potassium was 6.7,
creatinine 7.3, BUN 151.  The patient was sent to the
Emergency Department for evaluation of acute renal failure
and hyperkalemia.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient denied fever, chills,
headache, change in vision, sore throat, cough, shortness of
breath, chest pain, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea,
lower extremity edema, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting,
arthralgias, myalgias.  He did report constipation.  He has
no mouth pain.  He has been having good p.o. intake.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy with
an ejection fraction of 20%.  Status post anterior myocardial
infarction with left anterior descending PTCA in [**2193-6-1**].
Cardiac catheterization in [**2196-1-2**], showed
severe congestive heart failure with
elevated biventricular filling pressures of PA
52/21, pulmonary capillary wedge of 27, index of 1.9, cardiac
output 3.3.  Hemodynamics improved with Milrinone.

Echocardiogram in [**2196-1-2**] showed a left atrium and
right atrium mildly dilated, left ventricular cavity size
mildly dilated, ejection fraction of 20-30%, anterior septum
with standing fibrotic apex, akinetic basal segment of
posterior wall was normal, right ventricle dilated with
depressed systolic function, 1+ mitral regurgitation,
moderate pulmonary hypertension.

Hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus type 2, history of
hepatitis positive surface antigen, negative antibody.
History of cocaine abuse, denied.  Status post automatic
implantable cardiovascular defibrillator and DDD pacing for
supraventricular tachycardia.

The patient had a recent abdominal ultrasound for a liver
study on [**2196-2-11**], which showed normal echo texture and
no focal masses of the liver.  No intrahepatic ductal
dilatation, common bile duct was not dilated.  Pancreas
appeared normal.  There was no splenomegaly or ascites.
Incidentally noted was an accessory spleen, gallbladder with
unremarkable appearance.  Normal hepatopetal flow identified
in the portal veins.

MEDICATIONS:  Pantoprazole 40 q.d., Aspirin 81 q.d., Lipitor
10 q.d., Digoxin 0.125 mcg q.d., Glipizide 5 b.i.d.,
.Carvedilol 12.5 b.i.d., Lisinopril 20 q.d.,
Nicotine patch and gum.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives alone.  His girlfriend helps with
his care.  He denied history of cocaine.  Positive history of
marijuana use.  He drinks approximately four alcoholic drinks
per week.  He is currently unemployed.  Tobacco two weeks
prior to admission; he using the Nicotine patch to help with
that.

Temperature 96.3??????, pulse 70, blood pressure 74/43,
respirations 16, oxygen saturation 100%, he received 250 cc
of normal saline boluses which increased his blood pressure
to 80/50.  He was given Kayexalate ... p.o. x 1.
Electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm at 70 beats per
minute, atrial paced, ventricle conducted.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Weight 144 lbs.
General:  The patient was well appearing, in no acute
distress.  HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements intact.  Anicteric sclerae.  No
erythema or abscess in his mouth.  He had a right
................. placed in the CCU.  Heart:  Regular, rate
and rhythm.  No S3.  No murmurs or rubs.  Lungs:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen:  Soft and nondistended.
Negative [**Doctor Last Name 515**] sign.  Positive bowel sounds.  Extremities:
No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission sodium was 133, potassium 6.2,
chloride 92, bicarb 14, BUN 45, creatinine 6.8; white count
5.1, hematocrit 31.2, platelet count 21.3, anion gap 20; INR
1.2, PTT 29.5; ALT 61, AST 44, LDH 192, amylase 220, total
bilirubin 0.3, lipase 205, alkaline phosphatase 232, calcium
9.2, phosphorus 12.5, magnesium 3.0.

Swan-Ganz catheter was placed in the right atrium was with a
CVP of 6, PA pressure 47/18,  capillary
wedge 15, coronary output 6.5, cardiac index 3.6.

The patient had a chest x-ray to follow-up placement of the
Swan-Ganz catheter which showed no pneumothorax and no
cardiopulmonary disease on [**2-25**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This was a 36-year-old male with ischemic
dilated cardiomyopathy, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia,
coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction,
who presented with acute renal failure likely secondary to
taking Lasix, although the Swan-Ganz numbers do suggest
higher than usual cardiac output index for this pt suggestive
of possible affects of ACE inhibitor increasing his systemic
vascular resistance or some vasodilatory process.

1.  Cardiovascular/hypovolemia:  The patient was started, as
per the attending 100 cc/hr half normal saline for volume
repletion.  He did receive 300 cc normal saline over two
hours when his blood pressure had dropped in the CCU.  The
patient's blood pressure only transiently responded to
fluids. His pressure dropped to as low as the high 60s
systolic.  The patient's blood pressure went up to the high
90s temporarily with intravenous fluids.  The patient
required Dopamine drip which was started on the morning of
the 27th, continued through the morning of [**2-28**].

Because the numbers on Swan-Ganz catheterization were
suspicious for sepsis, a full work-up was sent, although the
patient had a normal white count and was afebrile.  Urine
culture on the 28th were negative.  Blood cultures from the
28th, with 1 out of 4 bottles, growing coag-neg staph.  These
were repeated on the 31st which had no growth to date.

After contiunous gentle hydration and Dopamine, the patient's
blood pressure was stable at 100-110 systolic.  He was able
to be restarted on lower doses of his outpatient medications.
He initially was on 3.25 of Coreg; this was increased to 6.5
of Coreg when Dopamine drip was discontinued, and he was
started on 2.5 Lisinopril q.d., which he was discharged on.

Cardiovascular/pump:  His Lasix was held.  The patient was
instructed many times not to take any more Lasix.  As stated
earlier, he was started on a lower dose of Digoxin at 0.125
q.o.d.  His Swan numbers were initially checked q.4 hours,
and as his pressure began to improve, and his pressors were
being weaned, his Swan-Ganz catheter was discontinued.

Cardiovascular/rhythm:  The patient was atrial paced and
ventricular sensed with Digoxin levels of 1.5
with resolution acute renal failure.  Renal
consult
service saw the patient who likely attributed his prerenal
state secondary to dehydration from vomiting with infection.
With intravenous hydration and
Dopamine, the patient's creatinine returned to [**Location 213**].  On
discharge it was 1.1.

For hyperkalemia, the patient received Insulin and half D50,
as well as Kayexalate and bowel regimen.  Potassium dropped
to 5.4.  On the day of admission, it was