Admission Date:  [**2172-12-17**]       Discharge Date:  [**2172-12-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2104-7-1**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 69-year-old
male with a history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, status
post failed cardioversion with Procainamide, Amiodarone and
DC cardioversion, now on chronic anticoagulation,
hypertension, probable coronary artery disease with prior
admission for a rectus sheath hematoma, now presenting with
2-4 weeks of increased dyspnea on exertion, increased
orthopnea and increased lower extremity edema.  The patient
reports he is typically able to walk 1?????? to 2 miles per day
without dyspnea.  For the past month he has had decreased
exercise tolerance secondary to fatigue and dyspnea.  He
reports orthopnea times approximately one month.  No history
of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  He does admit to a dry
cough, no fevers, chills or sweats, no chest pain with the
exception of some upper chest tightness associated with his
dyspnea.  Symptoms on admission today are brought on by the
slightest exertion including bending over to tie his shoes.
He also describes one week of watery black diarrhea.  No
abdominal pain, no emesis, occasional nausea.  The patient
has had poor po intake earlier in the week secondary to
nausea.  No hematemesis, no bright red blood per rectum, no
melena.  He has a daughter with diarrheal symptoms
approximately one week ago.  The patient was seen in the
clinic today and noted to have brown stool with bright red
blood on rectal exam.  His hematocrit was found to be 24.7
with INR of 7.7.  He had no symptoms at rest.  He was
admitted one year ago for similar symptoms and found to be
dyspneic on exertion with a low hematocrit attributed to
demand ischemia.  At that time the patient had an upper and
lower endoscopy which were negative with exception of some
diverticula noted in the large bowel.  The patient had no
prior history of bright red blood per rectum, melena or
hematemesis.  As noted above, ultrasound on that prior
admission revealed a large rectus sheath hematoma.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) History of paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation, hypertension, probable coronary artery disease
with a mibi in [**11-24**] which showed a mild reversible inferior
defect.  2) History of chronic low back pain.  3) History of
external hemorrhoids.  4) History of a rectus sheath hematoma
in the setting of anemia requiring blood transfusion.  5)
History of bright red blood per rectum in [**2171-12-26**] with
a negative EGD, negative colonoscopy and cardiac risk factors
include hypertension and age.  6) History of iron deficiency
anemia, previously on iron supplementation.

MEDICATIONS:  On admission, Toprol 50 mg po bid, Verapamil
180 mg po bid, Coumadin 2.5 mg po q d, Motrin 20 mg po q d,
Temazepam 15-45 mg q h.s. prn.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father with diabetes, no history of coronary
artery disease or hypertension.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient married with three children, no
tobacco.  He drinks approximately one drink per month.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.2, pulse 80, blood
pressure 132/82, respiratory rate 20, pulse 98% on room air.
General appearance, patient awake, alert, oriented times
three, no acute distress.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round,
and reactive to light and accommodation, extraocular
movements intact, moist mucus membranes, sclera anicteric.
Neck, no jugulovenous distension at 45 degrees, supple.
Cardiovascular, irregularly irregular, normal rate, no
murmurs.  Lungs with decreased breath sounds at the left
base, trace crackles at the right base.  Abdomen soft with
some mild periumbilical tenderness to palpation with active
bowel sounds, no rebound or guarding, no palpable masses, no
CVA tenderness.  Rectal exam, brown stool with bright red
blood per PCP.  [**Name Initial (NameIs) **], 1+ pitting edema to the mid
calf, 2+ pedal pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, white blood count 11.7,
hematocrit 24.7 from a baseline of 40 two weeks ago.
Differential, 87% neutrophils, 0% bands, 8% lymphocytes, 3%
monocytes, sodium 139, potassium 4.1, chloride 104, CO2 25,
BUN 28, creatinine 1.0, glucose 157, INR 7.7, ESR 37, uric
acid 3.7.  CKs were negative times three.  ALT was 69,
alkaline phosphatase 72, [**Doctor First Name **] which was ordered at outpatient
office was positive with a titer of greater than 1:1280 with
a diffuse pattern.  As noted above, prior EGD and colonoscopy
had been negative with the exception of some diverticulosis
of the sigmoid and descending colon as well as some grade 3
mixed thrombosed hemorrhoids.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular:  Patient with a history of coronary
artery disease.  In the setting of his anemia with likely
congestive heart failure, the patient was noted to have some
diffuse ischemic changes on EKG.  He subsequently ruled out
for myocardial infarction.  He had no chest pain complaints
during this admission.  His blood pressure medications were
initially held in the setting of his GI bleed and then
reintroduced.  The patient also with evidence of congestive
heart failure, thought to be likely due to demand ischemia.
The patient's dyspnea symptomatically improved after
correction of his hematocrit.  Even after aggressive
transfusion for GI bleeding, however, the patient remained
dyspneic on exertion with mild desaturation with ambulation.
He was noted to have persistent bilateral pleural effusions
right greater than left.  Please see pulmonary section below.
The patient's atrial fibrillation was rate controlled with
usual dose of Lopressor.  The patient was started on a low
dose of Lasix at the time of discharge.

2.  GI:  The patient presented with one week of black
diarrhea and noted to have bright red blood per rectum on
digital rectal exam by PCP on the day of admission.  He
presented with an elevated INR and a low hematocrit.  On the
night of admission the patient had a large bloody bowel
movement.  He was transfused two units overnight but his
hematocrit did not increase.  He became progressively more
tachycardic and uncomfortable.  He was subsequently
transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit where he was
transfused an additional 4 units of packed red blood cells.
He was also transfused three units of FFP and given three
doses of Vitamin K for elevated INR.  A tagged red blood cell
scan was negative.  Surgery was consulted.  The patient was
not scoped on this hospitalization as his bleeding had
resolved and there was no obvious source on tagged RBC scan.
It was thought that the likely source of his bleeding was
colonic diverticula in the setting of an elevated INR.  CT
scan of the abdomen showed no retroperitoneal hematoma.

3.  Pulmonary:  Patient noted to have some congestive heart
failure as well as bilateral pleural effusions, worse over
baseline on admission.  The patient did symptomatically
improve after some diuresis but had a persistent left
moderately sized pleural effusion.  On the day prior to
discharge the pleural effusion was tapped and 600 cc of
yellow serous fluid removed.  Fluid analysis was as follows:
Gram stain with no polys, no organisms.  Pleural fluid
analysis did reveal 9 white blood cells, 8,675 red blood
cells, total protein 3.3, glucose 146, LDH 166, PH 7.47,
cytology, [**Doctor First Name **] and rheumatoid factor were pending at the time
of discharge.  Pleural serum LDH ratio was noted to be 0.55
and pleural serum protein ratio was also noted to be 0.55,
the latter consistent with an exudative effusion.  The most
likely explanation for this was her Procainamide induced
lupus causing pleuritis.  The patient had also been noted to
have evidence of a non hemodynamically significant
pericardial effusion on echocardiogram and chest CT also
supported this diagnosis.  An antihistone antibody which is
generally consistent with lupus in the setting of
Procainamide was also pending at the time of discharge.  The
patient was noted to spike several high fevers after
returning to the floor following his MICU course.  His white
blood cell also jumped from a normal range to approximately
25 in this setting.  The concern initially was th