Admission Date:  [**2102-3-10**]       Discharge Date:  [**2102-3-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2036-7-29**]       Sex:  F

Service:  ACOVE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65-year-old
female with a history of bipolar disorder, ovarian carcinoma
and hyponatremia who presents complaining of one month of
hemoptysis with blood-streaked sputum, abdominal pain,
shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion.  The patient
states that she has some abdominal bloating and mild right
lower quadrant pain.  She also notes some blood-streaked
sputum with clots for the past month which is small volume.

The patient notes weakness, occasional back pain, occasional
headache, no fevers or chills, no dysuria, no rash, no
jaundice, no bilateral lower extremity edema.

In the Emergency Department the patient was found to have a
temperature of 100, pulse 114, blood pressure 163/92,
respiratory rate 18, saturating 96% on room air.  She had a
chest x-ray that was significant for compression of the right
lower lobe bronchus and multiple diffuse pulmonary nodules.
She had a KUB which showed no evidence of small bowel
obstruction.  She also had an abdominal CT which was
significant for a subacute liver hematoma which was 6 x 10 cm
in size.  The patient also had a chest CT which showed
multiple pulmonary nodules and a small right-sided pleural
effusion.

The patient was seen by the surgical consultation service who
stated that there was no role for immediate intervention of
the liver hematoma at this time.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1. Tylenol [**1-12**] p.o. q. 4 hours
p.r.n. pain.  2. Loxapine 25 mg p.o. q.h.s.  3. Risperdal 1
mg p.o. q.h.s.

ALLERGIES:  Prolixin, Stelazine, Flonase, Ativan, Dimetapp,
Trilafon, lithium, aspirin, Persantine, Relafen, ranitidine,
Prilosec, Procardia, strawberries, Sudafed, tofu.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Bipolar disorder, question of
history of schizoaffective disorder on loxapine and
Risperdal.  2. Ovarian carcinoma status post total abdominal
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in [**2096**] and
status post chemotherapy.  Low anterior resection of the
rectosigmoid.  Excision of cul-de-sac and completion
hysterectomy with partial vaginectomy.  3. Bright red blood
per rectum with diverticulosis status post low anterior
resection.  4. History of prolonged QT syndrome in the past
secondary to Mellaril.  5. Onychodystrophy of toenails.  6.
Hyponatremia in the past secondary to increased fluid intake,
however the patient has had low sodium in the past without
any symptoms.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Uncle with some sort of cancer which is
unknown.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone, is divorced and has
a restraining order out on her ex-husband.  She denies any
history of alcohol or tobacco use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Weight 199.2 pounds, temperature 99.8,
pulse 112, blood pressure 138/76, respiratory rate 28, pulse
oximetry 95% on room air.  General:  Sleepy, confused,
disheveled female in no apparent distress.  Neck:  No
lymphadenopathy.  HEENT:  Moist mucous membranes, oropharynx
clear.  Cardiovascular:  Normal S1 and S2, regular rate and
rhythm, no murmurs, gallops, or rubs.  Pulmonary:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally, poor respiratory effort.  Abdomen:
Positive bowel sounds, soft, nondistended, mild right upper
quadrant and right lower quadrant tenderness, obese.
Extremities:  Nonpitting edema, obese, good pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  At the time of admission her white blood
cell count was 20, hematocrit 30 (down from 42 in [**2102-2-11**]), platelet count 291, MCV 85, sodium 119, potassium 4.5,
chloride 81, bicarbonate 21, BUN 15, creatinine 0.7, glucose
139, urine osmolality 544, urine sodium less than 10.
Differential on the white blood cell count showed neutrophils
89%, lymphocytes 6.8%, monocytes 4.4%, eosinophils 0.1%.

EKG:  Normal sinus rhythm, rate of 100, QTC 414, right bundle
branch block, slight left axis deviation.

Abdominal CT, chest CT as noted in history of present
illness.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1. Hyponatremia:  Patient with a history of
psychogenic polydipsia in the past, however given that her
urine osmolalities are high, question of syndrome of
inappropriate diuretic hormone secondary to pulmonary
metastases, however low urine sodium also points to potential
prerenal or intravascular volume etiology.  The patient was
initially treated with fluid restriction with gradual
improvement of her sodium.  It remained within the 125 to 135
range and oscillated with treatment with intravenous fluids
and p.o. status for multiple procedures.  The patient was
asymptomatic and seemed to maintain a sodium between 125 and
135.  No further aggressive treatment of the hyponatremia was
continued.  The patient had her urine sodium and osmolality
checked on multiple occasions and her urine sodium was
usually low and urine osmolalities were usually high.

2. Shortness of breath:  The patient was intermittently
treated with oxygen via nasal cannula and maintained oxygen
saturations greater than 92% during her hospital course.  The
etiology of her shortness of breath was likely secondary to a
combination of her liver hematoma and abdominal extension and
obesity causing elevation of her diaphragm and subjective
shortness of breath as well as her diffuse pulmonary nodules.
The patient also had a small right-sided pleural effusion
which then increased in size and formed a right
hydropneumothorax.  The patient initially had a bronchoscopy
by the interventional pulmonary service, however the biopsy
results showed scant fragment sof bronchial mucosa and
alveolated parenchyma without evidence of malignancy.
However this biopsy seemed to be insufficient for diagnosis.
The patient was seen by the CT surgery service and eventually
had a video-assisted thoracoscopic procedure with drainage of
a right hydropneumothorax, pleurodesis, pulmonary biopsy and
two chest tubes that were placed.  The procedure was
uncomplicated.  The patient had good resolution of her
shortness of breath secondary to drainage of the fluid.  The
patient had her chest tubes pulled on [**2102-3-25**] and
chest x-ray showed no evidence of pneumothorax or residual
fluid.

Preliminary results of the pulmonary biopsy revealed a
carcinoma that was likely not pulmonary in etiology and it
was likely metastatic from her ovarian cancer.  This was per
a preliminary discussion with the pathologist who had
reviewed some of her prior biopsy results.  However, full
report is still pending at the time of dictation.

3. Pneumonia:  On the patient's initial chest x-ray and chest
CT the patient had a question of a right lower lobe collapse
versus consolidation.  She was initially treated with a
five-day course of azithromycin (patient has a history of
prolonged QT and we did not want to use levofloxacin).  The
patient had multiple sputum Gram stains which were possibly
contaminated with oral flora and which did not grow out any
specific pathogens.  Her pleural fluid Gram stain and culture
were also negative.  However, given the development of right
hydropneumothorax it is possible that the patient redeveloped
consolidation of the right lower lobe and thus she was
treated with intravenous Zosyn for a full seven-day course.

4. Hemoptysis:  The patient had persistent small amounts of
blood-streaked sputum at the beginning of her hospital
course.  This gradually disappeared for some time and
recurred around [**2102-3-27**] with small amounts of
recurrent hemoptysis.  This was clearly thought to be
secondary to her known diffuse metastatic pulmonary nodules.

5. Liver hematoma:  The patient's abdominal pain was
secondary to her known liver hematoma.  She was followed by
the surgery service.  She had a benign abdominal examination
with only minimal amounts of right upper and right lower
quadrant tenderness.  The patient had a repeat abdominal CT
on [**2102-3-15**] which showed that the patient was actively
bleeding from her hematoma into her peritoneum.  The patient
was treated with supportive blood transfusions and was kept
on strict bedrest for this.  Of note, the patient did slip
and fall which may have contributed to the rupture of the
acute liver hematoma.  The patient