Admission Date:  [**2133-3-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2133-4-14**]


Service:  GENERAL [**Doctor First Name **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Known lastname **] is an 82 year old
female who lives alone and has a very supportive family.  Her
past medical history is significant only for smoking 15
cigarettes per day and otherwise her health is usually good.
She recently developed obstructive jaundice which was
followed by placement of an endoprosthesis by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]
during endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography.  At
that time, she also had a peri-ampullar cancer identified by
a fine needle aspirate biopsy and CT angiography here at the
[**Hospital1 69**].  Now that her
obstructive jaundice has resolved, she has presented for the
Whipple procedure on [**2133-3-19**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post appendectomy as a child.
2.  Right knee arthroplasty.

MEDICATIONS:
None.

ALLERGIES:
Bactrim and Ceclor.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone and has a very
supportive family.  She smokes approximately 15 cigarettes
per day.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was brought in to the hospital
on [**2133-3-19**], to undergo the Whipple procedure.  She
tolerated the procedure well.  There were no complications.
The patient was stable immediately postoperatively.  Her pain
was controlled with epidural anesthesia.  Given her smoking
history, also, she was having some aggravation of her chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  In the Intensive Care Unit,
the patient underwent diuresis for her mild congestive heart
failure and she also received aggressive chest physical
therapy and was encouraged to do incentive spirometry.  The
patient remained stable.  She had a low urine output and low
blood pressure both of which responded to boluses of
intravenous fluid and on postoperative day three, the patient
was transferred from the Intensive Care Unit to the Floor in
stable condition.

Her anesthesia was changed to Dilaudid PCA and her
respiratory status was still in need of aggressive chest
Physical Therapy and incentive spirometry.  On postoperative
day five, she began to pass flatus but she was kept NPO for a
bout of emesis.  That night, she also had an episode of
confusion.

On postoperative day six, the patient was started on
Lopressor for high blood pressure and tachycardia.  She also
was noticed to have bilious drainage from her [**Location (un) 1661**]-[**Location (un) 1662**]
drain.  At this point, the patient although was tolerating
sips, was started on TPN for nutritional support.  She was
advanced to clears and continued to receive aggressive chest
Physical Therapy.  The patient underwent a CT scan on
postoperative day seven which revealed no undrained
collection, but the incision was noted to be draining copious
amounts of bilious fluid from the lateral edges.  Her abdomen
remained soft and nontender, nondistended.  Her drains were
in place.  When the patient was noted to have bilious
drainage from her wound, she was started once again on
antibiotics; this time, she was started on Levofloxacin and
Flagyl.

Her wound continued to drain bilious fluid and both her [**Doctor Last Name 406**]
and [**Location (un) 1661**]-[**Location (un) 1662**] were draining bilious drainage.  On
postoperative day nine, the patient was noted on physical
examination to have possible fascial dehiscence of her wound
at the right lateral edge.  Upon exploration of the wound by
the chief medical resident, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 9779**], it was felt that the
patient did have a fascial dehiscence of her wound and at
that point, it was felt that the patient should be taken back
to the Operating Room for a wound exploration and closure.
This was postoperative day nine from her Whipple, [**2133-3-28**].

The patient underwent an abdominal wound exploration and
closure.  She tolerated the procedure well and there were no
complications.  Postoperatively, the patient was continued on
Levofloxacin and Flagyl.  She had a decrease in her urine
output postoperatively from her wound closure which responded
to an intravenous fluid bolus.  She was cardiovascularly
stable throughout.  Her pain was controlled with morphine
p.r.n.

She continued to receive aggressive chest Physical Therapy
and incentive spirometry.  The patient was kept NPO on
intravenous fluids and continued to receive TPN.

Postoperatively, the patient was also placed on Ampicillin.
Her wound was noted to have retention sutures in place but
she continued to have bilious drainage from all portions of
her wound, mostly from the right lateral edge of the wound
which was in a dependent position.  Her abdomen was nontender
and nondistended, soft to palpation.  She only had areas of
tenderness surrounding her wound.

Postoperatively, the patient was requiring dressing changes
approximately every one to two hours and a stoma care
consultation was obtained, and at this point it was
recommended that the patient have Miconazole Powder applied
around the wound edges, followed by Double-Guard, which would
protect the skin from necrosis effects of the bilious
drainage.  At this point, the patient was also started on
Somatostatin in hopes of decreasing the wound drainage.

On postoperative day 13 from her Whipple and postoperative
day four from her wound exploration, the patient underwent a
CT scan of the abdomen which only revealed a small fluid
collection over the medial segment of the left lobe of the
liver.  She also had small bilateral pleural effusions.  The
CT scan was reviewed with the attending radiologist, and at
this point, the small amount of collection was felt to be too
small for drainage.

On postoperative day 17 status post Whipple and postoperative
day eight status post wound exploration and closure, the
patient was noted to have marked decrease of her wound
drainage.  At this point, it was felt that a trial of
stopping the Somatostatin was attempted.  The patient, at
this point although, continued on Levofloxacin, Flagyl and
Ampicillin.  The following day, the patient's wound drainage
was noticed to be increased once again and was bilious in
character.  At this point, it was felt that her Somatostatin
should be restarted and the patient kept on sips for comfort
and on TPN to decrease the amount of drainage to her wound.

Eventually, by postoperative day 25 status post Whipple and
postoperative day 16 status post her wound closure, at this
point her antibiotics had been discontinued.  Her wound
drainage had greatly decreased from immediately
postoperatively, requiring every one to two hour dressing
changes.  The patient was now only requiring dressings
changes every six to eight hours.  At this point, it was
noted that her wound dressing was no longer saturated with
bilious material.

At this point, the nature of the wound drainage was mostly
serous, occasional bilious, but markedly decreased in amount.
The patient was out of bed, ambulating with assistance three
times a day.  She continued on her TPN.  At this point, the
patient also was noted to have loose diarrheal stools which
were sent off for Clostridium difficile and noted to be
negative.  At this point, her Flagyl was discontinued.

The patient was felt stable to be discharged to
rehabilitation to continue her dressing changes and to
receive nutritional support.

The patient's pathology from her Whipple procedure revealed
an adenocarcinoma of the ampulla of the duodenum, poorly
differentiated, and mucin producing.  She had trans-renal
invasion, duodenal wall, with direct extension into the
pancreas.  There was focal vascular invasion.  Five lymph
nodes were identified without malignancy.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Sandostatin 100 micrograms subcutaneously three times a
day.
2.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. twice a day.
3.  Regular insulin sliding scale.
4.  Total parenteral nutrition as written.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
1.  Her dressing change involves removing the old dressing
and cleaning the skin adjacent to the wound with normal
saline moist gauze, followed by a foam cleanser to the distal
end of the wound and patted dry.  Then, following this,
Miconazole Powder is applied to the redd