Admission Date: [**2169-6-8**]        Discharge Date: [**2169-6-27**]

Date of Birth:  [**2095-5-12**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 74 year old gentleman
with a known history of coronary artery disease, who was
diagnosed in [**2167**], with non ST elevation myocardial
infarction.  The patient was managed medically and was in his
usual state of health until two to three weeks prior to
admission, complaining of shortness of breath at rest.  On
the evening of admission, the patient complained of chest
pain and dizziness, and was taken to the Emergency
Department.  Electrocardiogram showed old inferior wall
myocardial infarction with ST depression in I and aVL as well
as V5 and V6 and borderline ST elevation in III and aVF.  The
patient was admitted to [**Hospital1 69**]
and taken for cardiac catheterization.  Cardiac
catheterization showed an ejection fraction of 24 percent,
global hypokinesis, one plus mitral regurgitation, 100
percent proximal right coronary artery lesion, 60 percent
left main lesion, 70 percent proximal left anterior
descending coronary artery lesion, 80 percent mid left
anterior descending coronary artery lesion, and 70 percent
first diagonal, 90 percent mid circumflex and 90 percent
obtuse marginal one.  The patient was referred to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]
for cardiac surgery.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Status post myocardial infarction in
[**2167**].

Coronary artery disease.

Hypertension.

Noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.

Hypercholesterolemia.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Hiatal hernia.

Status post total knee replacement eight years ago.

Spinal stenosis with back surgery approximately five to six
years ago.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lopressor.
2. Captopril.
3. Aspirin.
4. Glyburide.
5. Lipitor.


SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives at home with wife.  [**Name (NI) **] is
a retired bakery owner.  The patient is a former heavy smoker
with a fifteen pack year history, quit eight to ten years
ago, and now currently smokes one to two cigarettes a week.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to [**Hospital1 346**] and on hospital day number two, the
patient had a noninvasive carotid ultrasound which showed
less than 40 percent narrowing of bilateral internal carotid
artery and on [**2169-6-9**], the patient was taken to the
operating room with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] for a coronary artery bypass
graft times four with left internal mammary artery to left
anterior descending coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to
diagonal, saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal and
saphenous vein graft to posterior descending coronary artery.
Total cardiopulmonary bypass time 82 minutes, cross clamp
time 57 minutes.  Please see operative note for full details.
The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit on
Milrinone, Levophed, Epinephrine, Propofol infusions.  On the
first postoperative evening, the patient was unable to wean
from mechanical ventilation due to mixed metabolic and
respiratory acidosis.  On early morning postoperative day
number one, the patient had an episode of supraventricular
tachycardia with heart rate of 200 and hypotension.  The
patient was cardioverted with 200 joules and started on
Amiodarone infusion with appropriate response of blood
pressure as the patient became more awake. The patient was
significantly agitated on Propofol.  The patient was started
on a Prosect infusion and had mild hypoxia.  The PEEP was
increased to eight with good response of his pO2.  The
patient was weaned and extubated the morning of postoperative
day number one.  Shortly after being extubated, the patient
developed atrial fibrillation.  The patient was rebolused
with Amiodarone and had electrolyte repletion.  However, he
continued to have atrial fibrillation with not a significant
change in his hemodynamics.  The patient continued on
Milrinone and Neo-Synephrine for hemodynamic support.  The
patient continued to be mildly hypoxic requiring an open face
mask.  The patient began receiving doses of intravenous
Lopressor for rate control of the atrial fibrillation and
continued on a Milrinone infusion for the hypoxia.  The
patient was started on diuresis and subsequently Lasix drip
to maintain adequate urine output.  On postoperative day
number two, the Milrinone was decreased.  The patient
continued to have adequate cardiac output, however, the
patient's creatinine began to rise, 1.8 on postoperative day
number two.  On postoperative day number three, the patient
was becoming progressively more hypoxic and his cardiac
indices as well as his mixed venous oxygen saturation were
decreasing.  The patient continued in atrial fibrillation and
decision was made to attempt cardioversion from the atrial
fibrillation.  Anesthesia admitted sedation and cardioversion
was attempted, however, unsuccessful.  Electrophysiology was
at the patient's bedside, recommended continuing the
Amiodarone as well as anticoagulation.  The evening of
postoperative day number three the patient began to be mildly
confused.  Over the evening on postoperative day number
three, the patient became progressively more confused.  The
early morning of postoperative day number four, the patient
had become more agitated and had increasing work of
breathing.  The patient had an acute decrease in his blood
pressure as well as bradycardia.  Anesthesia was called stat
to the patient's bedside and the patient was intubated
emergently.  The patient received low dose Epinephrine with
good response and return of blood pressure.  Postintubation
chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema and left upper lobe
infiltrate.  Sputum had shown gram negative rods.  The
patient was started on Ciprofloxacin.  The patient continued
to be on a Heparin infusion for his atrial fibrillation.  The
patient's Milrinone which had been increased during
postoperative day number four was decreased as once the
patient was reintubated, the patient's hemodynamics
significantly improved with improvement in the pO2 as well as
the cardiac index.  The patient's Lasix drip had been stopped
due to the hemodynamic instability and the patient was
restarted on low dose intermittent Lasix.  On postoperative
day number five, the patient was again cardioverted and
attempt successfully into sinus rhythm with mild improvement
in the hemodynamic indices.  The patient continued to require
mechanical ventilation and the evening of postoperative day
number five the patient was back in atrial fibrillation and
attempts at cardioversion were unsuccessful.  On
postoperative day number six, the patient remained intubated
and had a feeding tube placed by interventional radiology.
The patient was started on Prosect to maintain an adequate
level of sedation without significant agitation.  Pulmonary
consultation was obtained due to the patient's difficulty
weaning from mechanical ventilation.  Recommendations were
made as far as ventilator settings and bronchodilators and
inhaled steroids.  By postoperative day number ten, the
patient was able to be weaned from mechanical ventilation.
The patient continued to have episodes of atrial
fibrillation.  On postoperative day number six, the patient
had a low grade temperature.  On postoperative day number
eight, the patient had increasing temperature with a normal
white blood cell count.  Sputum had gram negative rods.
Blood cultures drawn on postoperative day number eight
subsequently grew coagulase negative Staphylococcus for which
the patient was started on Vancomycin and the fevers
resolved.  The patient continued on Amiodarone and
respiratory status improved with aggressive diuresis and
pulmonary toilet.  The patient began to ambulate with the
assistance of the nurses.  The patient's central line has
been removed several days prior due to the positive blood
cultures.  The patient had continued on p.o. nutrition and
appeared to tolerate well.  The patient continued to receive
aggressive pulmonary toilet over the next several days and by
postoperative day number sixteen, the patient had improved
sufficiently to transfer from the Intensive Care Unit to the
regular part of the hos