Admission Date:  [**2101-10-15**]     Discharge Date:  [**2101-11-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2029-12-9**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine

CHIEF COMPLAINT:   Chief complaint is shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71-year-old male with
a history type 2 diabetes, nonischemic cardiomyopathy (with
an ejection fraction of 20% to 25%), chronic atrial
fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia arrest, and
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (status post automatic
internal cardioverter-defibrillator placement), and chronic
renal insufficiency (baseline creatinine of 1.5 to 1.7) who
presents with three days of diarrhea, increased lower
extremity edema, shortness of breath, and dyspnea on exertion
on the day of admission.

The patient denies any fevers, chills, shakes, nausea,
vomiting, dysuria, hesitancy, or frequency.  The patient has
had no recent illnesses, and he denies hematochezia, melena,
hematemesis, or hemoptysis.  However, the patient does note
that he has been voiding less frequently over the last
several days.

The patient was noted to have tachypneic upon presentation to
[**Hospital1 69**] Emergency Department.
His chemistries revealed that he was in acute renal failure
with a creatinine of 2.5 and a potassium of 6.1.  The patient
was given calcium gluconate, insulin, glucose, and Kayexalate
and transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Type 2 diabetes; on oral hyperglycemics.
 2.  Cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 20% to 25%.
Underwent cardiac catheterization in [**2101-6-23**] which
demonstrated no flow-limiting disease.  Cardiomyopathy
thought to be secondary to alcohol.
 3.  Atrial fibrillation (on Coumadin for 17 years).
 4.  Gout.
 5.  Hypertension.
 6.  Status post left hip replacement.
 7.  Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine
of 1.3 to 1.7.
 8.  Status post ventricular fibrillation arrest with
subsequent implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placement
in [**2101-8-23**].
 9.  History of fatty liver.
10.  History of groin hematoma on the right with
pseudoaneurysm; status post cardiac catheterization in [**2101-6-23**].
11.  History of congestive heart failure exacerbation in
[**2101-6-23**]; at which time cardiac catheterization showed
no flow-limiting disease but demonstrated both right-sided
and left-sided high filling pressures with left ventricular
end-diastolic pressure of 30, global hypokinesis, and
moderate pulmonary hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (His medications on admission
included)
 1.  Metoprolol 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 2.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 3.  Warfarin 3 mg p.o. q.h.s.
 4.  Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.
 5.  Lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d.
 6.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
 7.  Glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.d.
 8.  Lasix 160 mg p.o. q.d.
 9.  Colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. q.d.
10.  Allopurinol 300 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in his unit in a home
which he shares with his daughter ([**Name (NI) **]).  The patient
has a 55-year history of smoking cigars (he denies cigarette
smoking).  He quit cigars two months ago.  In addition, the
patient has had a history of heavy alcohol drinking up until
approximately 15 years ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Temperature was 96.8,
heart rate was 79, blood pressure was 98/45, respiratory rate
was 14, saturating 100% on 100% nonrebreather.  In general,
this was an elderly male in moderate distress.  Breathing
heavily; however, alert and oriented times three.  Head and
neck examination revealed pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles were intact.  Mucous
membranes were very dry.  The neck was supple with jugular
venous distention difficult to assess secondary to neck
girth.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate.
A 2/6 systolic murmur at the left sternal border.  Chest had
occasional crackles at the bases bilaterally; otherwise,
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  The abdomen was soft,
nontender, and nondistended.  Normal bowel sounds.
Extremities revealed 2+ pitting edema bilaterally.  Dorsalis
pedis pulses were 1+ bilaterally.  Several ecchymoses on the
arms and legs.  Neurologic examination revealed cranial
nerves II through XII were grossly intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  His
laboratories were the following; his white blood cell count
was 7.5 (with 85% neutrophils, 12% lymphocytes, and 3%
monocytes), hematocrit was 38.5, mean cell volume was 97, and
platelets were 150.  His PT was 20, PTT was 37.1, and INR was
2.8.  His sodium was 139, potassium was 6.3, chloride was
111, bicarbonate was 13, blood urea nitrogen was 93,
creatinine was 3.4, and blood glucose was 117.  Calcium was
8.7, magnesium was 2, phosphate was 6.8.  ALT was 19, AST was
79, alkaline phosphatase was 123, total bilirubin was 0.4.  A
urinalysis (done in the setting of a traumatic Foley
placement) showed negative nitrites, negative leukocytes,
positive blood, pH was 5, 10 red blood cells, 1 white blood
cells, and a few bacteria.  His first arterial blood gas was
7.15/38/288.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray showed mild cardiomegaly
and mild congestive heart failure.

A renal ultrasound showed bilateral kidneys of 8.9 cm.  No
hydronephrosis and abdominal ascites.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit with a diagnosis of acute renal failure
secondary to dehydration in the setting of volume loss due
from diarrhea.

Renal was consulted and felt that were no indications for
hemodialysis at this time.  He was aggressively fluid
resuscitated with normal saline, and bicarbonate, and D-5-W.
His ACE inhibitor, diuretics, colchicine, and glipizide were
held.  There was no evidence of congestive heart failure, and
the patient maintained good oxygen saturations.

He had hypotension for which he was given fluid boluses with
a poor response.  It was at thought possibly due to adrenal
suppression, and the patient was stated dexamethasone.  The
patient's diarrhea improved throughout his hospital course.
He was able to tolerate full oral intake.  Anticoagulation
with an INR of 2.8 for chronic atrial fibrillation was
reversed in order to obtain central access which failed with
two attempts.  Hematocrit decreased to 28, and the patient
received 2 units of packed red blood cells.   His platelets
had also been decreasing, which was thought secondary to
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia from his line flushes.  The
patient had a peripherally inserted central catheter placed
prior to transfer to the floor secondary to difficulty with
central access.

The patient was transferred to the floor on [**2101-10-17**].  His hospital course since that transfer was as
follows:

1.  RENAL SYSTEM:  The patient's creatinine continued to
rise, which was felt to be secondary to prerenal etiology
with development of acute tubular necrosis.

The Congestive Heart Failure Service was consulted in order
to find a way to mobilize his extravascular fluid to perfuse
his kidneys better.  The patient was started on Natrecor in
order to obtain better diuresis than was being accomplished
by his Lasix.  With the Natrecor, he had some improvement in
his creatinine; however, the actual fluid diuresis was
limited.  The patient was then transitioned to
ultrafiltration in order to remove fluid, which was
successful.  However, his renal function worsened, and at
that point he was found to be end-stage renal disease and was
started on hemodialysis after placement of a right subclavian
access port.  The patient tolerated hemodialysis well.

He was placed on Renagel in order to decrease his phosphate
which then normalized.  His Renagel was discontinued.  The
patient was started on Nephrocaps.  He was also started on
iron sulfate, Epogen, and vitamin D for hyperparathyroidism.
All of these were administered through dialysis.  The patient
will need to continue hemodialysis on a long-term basis.  His
latest blood urea nitrogen/creatinine ratio was 72/2.8.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  The patient's blood pressure was
stable on transfer from the unit.  A cortisol stimulation
test was done which showed that the patient was n