Admission Date:  [**2168-6-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2168-6-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2138-11-27**]       Sex:  M

Service:  ICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:   Airway obstruction.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 29 year old
male with a history of childhood asthma with occasional
albuterol use, allergic rhinitis and question of obstructive
sleep apnea with tonsillar hypertrophy, who presented on the
day of admission for an elective tonsillectomy.  The
procedure was done without any operative events.
Postoperatively, the patient developed bleeding from his left
tonsillar pole.  ENT evaluated the patient and noticed that
there was swelling of the uvula and epiglottis with frank
bleeding from the left tonsillar pole.  The increased
bleeding necessitated a return to the Operating Room for a
cautery.  Estimated total blood loss was 250 to 300 cc.
Concern for airway edema and loss of airway led to elective
intubation, using an intubating LMA.  Intubation was
difficult and took 20 minutes to achieve.

Transient episodes of hypoxia were noted as well as transient
hypotension.  The patient was transferred to the Fenard
Intensive Care Unit.

In the Operating Room the patient was started on propofol,
vecuronium, given 2.5 liters of volume resuscitation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post left lower extremity gunshot wound
complicated by cellulitis in [**2165**].
2.  Irregular heartbeat.
3.  Childhood asthma with occasional post upper respiratory
infection reactive airways disease.
4.  Allergic rhinitis.
5.  Gallstones.
6.  Obstructive sleep apnea with tonsillar hypertrophy.
7.  History of Helicobacter pylori status post treatment.
8.  Status post open reduction and internal fixation of left
tibia in [**2167-5-11**].

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Albuterol MDI with occasional p.r.n. use.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   The patient works as a cook.  He denies
smoking.  The patient has a history of alcohol abuse and in
the past has had two to four 40 ounce beers per day.  He
denied any evidence of withdrawal symptoms.  Currently, he
uses about one 40 ounce bottle of malt liquor every two to
three days.  He does admit to smoking THC every two to three
days.

FAMILY HISTORY:   No history of coronary artery disease,
diabetes mellitus or cancer.  There is a history of alcohol
abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   The patient arrived to the [**Last Name (un) 6608**]
Intensive Care Unit intubate on assist control 600 by 10,
PEEP of 5, 100% FIO2.  Temperature was 37.1 F., with a heart
rate of 103, blood pressure of 91/22; respiratory rate of 10
and oxygen saturation of 98%.  On general examination, the
patient was a fairly well appearing male in no apparent
distress.  He was sedated and intubated.  HEENT:  The patient
was intubated with scant dried blood in clots in the anterior
oral cavity.  Neck examination revealed mild to moderate neck
swelling. Cardiac examination revealed a regular tachycardia,
normal S1, S2, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Pulmonary
examination revealed decreased breath sounds at the left
base.  Abdominal examination revealed the belly was soft,
nondistended, with normal bowel sounds and no
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremity examination revealed no edema.
Neurological:  The patient was sedated and paralyzed.

LABORATORY:  Pertinent laboratory findings were that the
patient had a white blood cell count of 16.7, hematocrit of
36.0, and platelets of 241 with an INR of 1.3 and a
fibrinogen of 268.

EKG with normal sinus rhythm at 96; normal axis, left
ventricular hypertrophy with normal intervals.  Otherwise no
significant ST-T or acute changes.

Chest x-ray with discoid atelectasis, right middle lobe,
patchy opacity with air bronchograms consistent with
pneumonia, versus pneumonitis, versus hemorrhage.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 29 year old
male with a history of asthma, ATP, question of obstructive
sleep apnea with tonsillar hypertrophy, who presented for a
elective tonsillectomy and whose course is complicated by
airway edema and hemorrhage requiring intubation for airway
protection.

1.  ENT:  The patient is status post elective tonsillectomy
for tonsillar hypertrophy, complicated by severe airway edema
and hemorrhage thought secondary to trauma from surgery,
necessitating intubation for airway protection.  An
underlying disorder such angioedema was also of concern.  The
patient was intubated for a period of 24 to 48 hours while
airway edema was stabilized using dexamethasone 10 mg
intravenously q. eight hours.  The patient was treated with
Clindamycin 600 mg intravenously q. eight hours for
antibiotic coverage.  This was to cover oral flora as well as
anaerobes.  ENT followed the patient throughout the patient's
Intensive Care Unit stay.

Laboratory work for angioedema was sent including C4, C1Q, C1
inhibitor, functional assay and trypticase.  Serial
hematocrits were monitored and the patient's hematocrit
remained stable throughout admission.  The patient was
initially sedated and paralyzed in order to maintain his
airway as the intubation was quite difficult.

The patient was eventually weaned off steroids and discharged
home on Clindamycin 450 mg q. six hours for ten days.  He was
arranged to follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] as an outpatient.

2.  PULMONARY:  The patient with a history of asthma and
obstructive sleep apnea status post tonsillectomy.
Postoperatively the patient was found to have bilateral lower
lobe consolidations with a lone temperature spike to 101.6 F.
This was thought to be consistent initially with aspiration
pneumonia versus pneumonitis.

The patient was successfully extubated 48 hours after
intubation.  He was treated empirically with Clindamycin and
Levofloxacin for a potential aspiration pneumonia.  However.
repeat chest x-ray the day prior to discharge revealed
complete resolution of bilateral lower lobe processes and it
was thought that these were likely more due to atelectasis
than pneumonic process.  Levofloxacin was discontinued the
day prior to discharge.  The patient had no further
temperature elevations and a normal white blood cell count
after steroids were discontinued.

3.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient was covered with a proton
pump inhibitor for stress ulcers and this was eventually
transitioned to ranitidine p.o. when the patient was
extubated.

4.  HEMATOLOGIC:  The patient had postoperative hemorrhage
and his hematocrit was monitored and remained stable
throughout his Intensive Care Unit stay.

5.  PSYCHIATRIC:  The patient with a history of alcohol
withdrawal and was monitored per CIWA scale and given Ativan
as needed.  He required very little Ativan and did not
undergo any withdrawal symptomology during his stay.  The
patient recently lost his brother and was told one day after
extubation. The patient was very saddened by this news and
requested discharge in time for the funeral. He had family
present with him for support

6.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient had two out of four
bottles grow Gram positive cocci in pairs and clusters from
the same set of blood cultures.  This was around the time of
extubation.  Cultures subsequently returned coagulase
negative Staphylococcus and this was most consistent with
contamination.  The patient was initially covered with
Vancomycin until cultures came back with coagulase negative
Staphylococcus.  He remained afebrile with a normal white
count after extubation.

7.  FLUIDS, ELECTROLYTES AND NUTRITION:   The patient was
initially n.p.o. while intubated and as he was extubated, he
was given clears which were advanced to soft liquids which
were eventually full liquids, which was eventually advanced
to a soft solid and then a full diet.  He did well without
any evidence of aspiration.

8.  PROPHYLAXIS:  The patient was maintained on an
intravenous proton pump inhibitor while intubated and this
was switched to p.o. H2 blocker, once able to take p.o.  He
was maintained on Venodyne boots for deep vein thrombosis and
pulmonary embolism prophylaxis throughout his hospital stay.
He was also out of bed and ambulatory two days prior to
discharge.

9.  COMMUNICATION:  Communication was maintained with the
famil