Admission Date:  [**2113-11-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2113-11-26**]


Service:  BLUE SURGERY

DATE AND TIME OF DEATH:  [**2113-11-26**], 02:00.

CAUSE OF DEATH:  Cardiac arrest secondary to cardiogenic
shock.

PROCEDURES DURING ADMISSION:
1.  Exploratory laparotomy.
2.  Sigmoid colectomy with [**Doctor Last Name 3379**] pouch and end colostomy
on [**2113-11-7**].
3.  The patient also had mechanical ventilation.
4.  Swan-Ganz catheterization and arterial line monitoring
during this hospital stay.

REASON FOR ADMISSION:  The patient is an 87 year-old female
who was transferred from [**Hospital6 **] per the
family's request.  The patient was unresponsive at that
institution starting on the 10th.  She had a pacemaker placed
for atrial fibrillation on the [**11-10**] and on the 7th
the patient was noted to have abdominal distention on KUB,
which showed large bowel dilatation.  The patient was then
treated with nasogastric tube, rectal tube decompression.
She is being anticoagulated for atrial fibrillation with
Coumadin and receiving Lovenox as well.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for atrial fibrillation,
coronary artery disease status post non Q wave myocardial
infarction in [**2109**], hypercholesterolemia, congestive heart
failure, mitral regurgitation, tricuspid regurgitation,
hypothyroidism, gout and blindness.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  The patient was on Prevacid 30 q
day, Timolol drops OU, Tolamide drops OU, topical
Hydrocortisone, Ensure plus, Colchicine .6 q day,
Levothyroxine .05 mg q day, Oxybutynin 2.5 b.i.d., Prednisone
eye drops, Dulcolax prn, Digoxin .5 q day, Lopressor 50
t.i.d., Lovenox 30 subq b.i.d., magnesium oxide 400 b.i.d.,
Tequin 400 intravenous q day and Albuterol and Atrovent
nebulizers.

After transfer to [**Hospital1 69**] the
patient was placed on aspirin 325 mg q day, Lopressor 5
intravenous q 6, Levaquin 250 q day, Vancomycin 500, morphine
prn, Digoxin .125 intravenous q day, Flagyl 500 intravenous
t.i.d., Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers, subq heparin,
Diltiazem 10 mg intravenous times one, Protonix 40 q day
intravenous, Levothyroxine 25 intravenous q day, Brimonidine
eye drops and Latanoprost eye drops.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 101.8.  97.0.  Pulse 107
and irregular.  Blood pressure 110/59.  Respirations 20.
Saturations 92%.  She is on normal saline at 75 cc an hour.
On examination in general the patient was unresponsive.
Heart was irregular and tachy.  Lungs showed decreased breath
sounds bilaterally.  Abdomen soft, distended.  The patient
winces to deep palpation in the left lower quadrant.
Extremities without edema and perfused.  Lines include a left
PICC line, left femoral triple lumen catheter, nasogastric
tube, Foley and rectal tube.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 11.9, hematocrit 28.7,
platelets 313, PT 17, PTT 29.7, INR 2.0, sodium 146,
potassium 5.3, chloride 116, CO2 22, BUN 38, creatinine 1.3,
glucose 127, calcium 7.9, magnesium 1.5, phos 2.6, lipase 7,
albumin 2.5, ALT 363, AST 593, alkaline phosphatase 193 and
total bilirubin is 0.8, amylase is 91, lactate 3.0, troponin
was 13.9, CPK 65.33 and MB was not done.  Urinalysis showed
moderate leukocyte esterase, moderate blood, few bacteria, 3
to 5 red cells and 6 to 10 white blood cells.  Arterial blood
gas was 7.34, 45, 188, 25, and negative 1.  CT of her head
was unchanged showing a left parietal lobe infarct, unchanged
right thalamic lacunar infarct.  CT of her abdomen showed
bilateral pleural effusions.  No small bowel thickening,
descending and sigmoid bowel thickening with fat stranding
and minimal free fluid.  No pneumatosis, questionable colonic
polyp in the descending colon and mild dilatation of the
small bowel.  KUB showed the cecum not very dilated, no free
air, no evidence of obstruction and air throughout the colon.

ASSESSMENT:  The patient is an 87 year-old female with likely
ischemic colitis of the descending and sigmoid colon.  The
plan was to take the patient emergently to the Operating Room
for exploratory laparotomy.  In preparation for surgery the
patient was given fresh frozen platelets and a left
subclavian port was placed along with the Swan-Ganz catheter.

The patient's son was available for discussion about the
patient's prognosis and they were made aware that the
patient's chances of survival were slim even with surgery and
they chose to proceed with surgery and informed consent was
obtained from the family.

She was taken to the Operating Room and underwent exploratory
laparotomy where a ischemic left colon was encountered.  She
underwent a left hemicolectomy, [**Doctor Last Name 3379**] pouch and
colostomy, J tube placement and the splenic flexure was taken
down.  She required 2 units of packed red blood cells and 2
units of fresh frozen platelets during the surgery.  She also
had [**2111**] cc of crystalloid and she was transferred to the
[**Hospital Unit Name 153**] in critical condition.   Postoperatively the patient
remained intubated.  Refer to operative dictation for more
details.

Initially out of the Operating Room the patient was on an
epinephrine drip, which was weaned off.  Additionally she was
taken off her Amiodarone and a nitro drip was added initially
for after load reduction.  She is also put on Dobutamine to
increase her bowel function and remained antibiotic coverage
of Flagyl, Levaquin and Vancomycin initially.  For
prophylaxis she was placed on Protonix.  She is also on a
beta blocker, Metoprolol 5 mg intravenous q 6 hours.  For
deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis as well as coagulation
given her atrial fibrillation she was placed on Lovenox 40 mg
subQ q day.  She remained on her Levothyroxine, digoxin and
aspirin.

She did require fluid boluses aggressively throughout
postoperative day one to support her urine output.
Postoperative day two the patient remained on a Dobutamine
drip of 5 micrograms per kilogram per minute and nitro .5
micrograms per kilogram per minute.  She had received a total
of 10 liters over the previous 24 hours and had no fevers or
desaturations.

Initially the inferior portion of the patient's colostomy was
dusky, however, this improved by postoperative day three.
The plan for the day was to slow down the patient's hydration
and to continue broad antibiotic coverage.  She was kept on
the Lovenox initially, however, she was showing a downward
trend in her platelets.

By postoperative day three the patient's Dobutamine had been
weaned to 2 micrograms per kilogram per minute and she
remained on nitro and trophic tube feeds were started.  The
plan was attempt to wean Dobutamine to off and to restart the
patient's beta blocker.  For antibiotic coverage the plan was
to initially continue for five days postoperatively.

By postoperative day five the patient's Dobutamine drip was
off and her nitro drip was off.  Due to hypoglycemia
following the institution of total parenteral nutrition an
insulin drip was started.  Enalapril was attempted, however,
blood pressure dropped so this was discontinued.  She was
restarted on Lopresor 5 mg intravenous q 6 once the
Dobutamine was weaned off and began on gentle diuresis with
prn loop diuretics.

Due to her thrombocytopenia her Lovenox was dropped and all
heparin was eliminated on her carrier fluids. The HIP panel
was sent, which ultimately returned negative.

On postoperative day five the patient developed what appeared
to be an embolic phenomenon to her fingers and toes.  The
concern was that the patient could possibly be embolizing
from atrial clot given her atrial fibrillation and stopping
of her anticoagulation.  Cardiology consult was obtained the
recommendations of which were to anticoagulate the patient
with guidance from hematology.  Hematology recommended a
Lepirudin drip, which was started on the [**11-22**].  On
postoperative day six the patient had been restarted on
Dobutamine due to low cardiac index and also begun on a Lasix
drip for diuresis.  Her Lepirudin was on at 3 mg per hour.
She had begun to show an upper trend in her fever curve to
100.8 for a temperature max.  She was on Vancomycin at this
time.  This was due to a positive sputum culture three days
prior, 