Admission Date:  [**2175-11-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2175-11-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2114-6-25**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61-year-old
female with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and
a long history of tobacco use, who developed progressive
shortness of breath over the 36 hours prior to admission.
The daughter reports that the patient has had a productive
cough for the last two to three days.  On the day prior to
admission the shortness of breath worsened and she was using
her nebulizers frequently.  The patient had increasing
shortness of breath overnight and called the ambulance at 3
AM.  The patient was noted to have a respiratory rate of 28,
O2 saturation of 87%, pulse of 128, and blood pressure of
210/100 by the EMS.  The patient was given albuterol and
Atrovent x 3, terbutaline en route, which improved her
shortness of breath mildly.  The patient was placed on a
nonrebreather, given Solu-Medrol intravenously, intravenous
magnesium, and Levaquin.  The patient expressly refused
intubation with the family there.  The patient has been
DNR/DNI in the past as well.  The patient was placed on
noninvasive mask ventilation and admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. Pulmonary function tests in [**2173**] showed an FEV1 of
0.73, FEV1:FVC ratio 50% of predicted.  2. Status post
cholecystectomy.  3. Anxiety.

MEDICATIONS:  Prednisone 40; albuterol metered dose inhalers;
Atrovent metered dose inhalers; Serevent metered dose
inhalers; Serevent metered dose inhalers; Flovent metered
dose inhalers; [**Last Name (un) **]-Dur 300 t.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin and sulfa.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her daughter.  She smokes two
packs per day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.3, pulse 117, blood
pressure 182/89, respiratory rate 28, saturations of 95% on
BiPAP 10 and 5 with FIO2 of 0.4.  She was generally agitated,
but this improved with morphine.

Her head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination showed her
pupils to be equal and reactive to light; extraocular
movements intact; dry mucous membranes.  Neck was supple with
no jugular venous distension.  Cardiac examination was
tachycardic, regular, difficult to appreciate secondary to
respiratory distress.  Pulmonary examination showed positive
accessory muscle movement; diffuse inspiratory and expiratory
wheezes with poor air movement.  Abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended, with positive bowel sounds.  Extremities showed
no cyanosis, clubbing or edema; warm, with 2+ dorsalis pedis
pulses bilaterally.  Neurological examination showed her to
be awake, alert, answered "yes" and "no".  She moved all
extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 17.2, hematocrit 46.3, platelet
count 341, 72% neutrophils, 21% lymphocytes, 5.4% monocytes.
Urinalysis was negative.  Sodium was 145, potassium 4.5,
chloride 104, bicarbonate 27, BUN 13, creatinine 0.6, glucose
165.  Theophylline level was 3.0.  At 6 AM her arterial blood
gases were 7.16, 92, 314.

CHEST X-RAY:  There was a small right pleural effusion, right
basilar opacity, atelectasis versus pneumonia.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  Sinus tachycardia at a rate of 123;
normal axis; inferior Q's, old.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Discussion was had with the family and the
patient, and she refused intubation.  The patient continued
to treat with Solu-Medrol, theophylline, inhalers, and
Levaquin, but was taken off the mask ventilation for comfort.
The patient was also given morphine and Ativan p.r.n. for
comfort.  The patient gradually became more somnolent and
passed away at 9:45 PM on [**2175-11-18**].

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1. Pneumonia.
2. Congestive heart failure.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To funeral home.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7512**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 16516**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2175-12-14**]  11:52
T:  [**2175-12-18**]  12:10
JOB#:  [**Job Number 10500**]
