Admission Date:  [**2122-1-28**]     Discharge Date:  [**2122-2-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2078-8-17**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Fever, shortness of breath, hypoxia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 43-year-old female
with a past medical history significant only for
hypertension, who presents with 3-4 days of fever, malaise,
stiff neck, nonproductive cough.  In the Emergency
Department, the patient had a fever of 103.0 F, complained of
pleuritic chest pain, nausea, headache, diarrhea.  According
to her husband, she decompensated over the 24 hours leading
up to her presentation to the Emergency Room.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was placed on 100%
nonrebreather, but came up to only 90% oxygen saturation.
She also started to drop her systolic blood pressure with a
low systolic of 75/45.  She was placed on Levophed in order
to support her pressure.  She also received 3 liters of
normal saline in the Emergency Department.  The patient was
empirically given 2 grams of ceftriaxone and 500 mg of
levofloxacin.  She was also started on Vancomycin, and
treated as if she had bacterial meningitis.  Patient was
intubated.  Of note, the patient has no significant past
medical history other than her hypertension. There is no
travel history.

In the MICU, the patient was continued on aggressive volume
resuscitation with three more liters of normal saline.  An
A-line was placed.  Patient met criteria for SIRS/sepsis.  In
addition, she had end-organ dysfunction in the form of
hypotension.  For this reason, she met criteria to be placed
on Xigris.  A Swan-Ganz catheter was floated to optimize the
patient's fluid status.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.

OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS:
1. Hydrochlorothiazide.
2. Zoloft.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco or alcohol use.  The patient is
married and lives with her husband.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vitals:  Temperature 101.0, pulse 90,
respiratory rate 24, blood pressure 87/40, and 80% on
nonrebreather.  General:  The patient is lethargic.  HEENT:
Mucous membranes moist, no neck stiffness or photophobia
noted.  Lungs have coarse rhonchi on expiration, decreased
breath sounds in the left lower lobe.  Cardiovascular:
Regular, rate, and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities:  No
clubbing, cyanosis, or edema, slightly cool extremities.
Neurologic:  Sedated in preparation for intubation.

LABORATORIES:  White count 14.0 with 36% neutrophils, 56%
bands, 1% lymphocyte, hematocrit 40.7, platelets 236.  Sodium
135, potassium 3.4, chloride 97, bicarb 24, BUN 15,
creatinine 0.7, glucose 131, calcium 8.8, magnesium 1.3,
phosphorus 3.4.

ARTERIAL BLOOD GAS:  After intubation on vent setting of AC
with tidal volume of 600, respiratory rate of 20, FIO2 of
100%, and PEEP of 15, was pH 7.31, pCO2 33, pAO2 73, bicarb
17.

CHEST X-RAY:  Significant for left lower lobe pneumonia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In short, this is a 43-year-old female with
a past medical history significant for only hypertension, who
presents with three days of fever, shortness of breath,
headache, neck stiffness.  Presented with hypoxia,
hypotension in the setting of left lower lobe pneumonia, and
meeting criteria for SIRS/sepsis.

1. ID:  Patient presented with a community acquired
pneumonia.  Given her rapid decompensation, she likely
developed Strep pneumonia.  Patient has no known history of
any immunosuppression that have made her more vulnerable to
this infection.  Patient also presented with headache and
complaint of neck stiffness.  A lumbar puncture was not done
because the patient was too far out on her antibiotics.
Therefore, she was treated as if she had bacterial meningitis
with a 14 day course of Vancomycin and ceftriaxone.  The
patient was also placed empirically on levofloxacin for
community acquired pneumonia.

[**Hospital **] hospital course was significant in that she
continued to spike despite being on this trial of
antibiotics.  In addition, her white count continued to go up
and her bandemia was not resolving.  Patient received a chest
CT scan on [**2122-2-1**] which showed bilateral pulmonary
parenchymal air space opacification throughout the posterior
aspects of the lower lobes, left greater than right, findings
consistent with diffuse pneumonic consolidation.  There was
no definite evidence of empyema, however, the study was
limited by the lack of IV contrast.  CT scan was also
significant for bilateral pleural effusions and a small
pericardial effusion.

Patient also received a sinus CT scan.  This showed mucosal
thickening and air fluid levels throughout the maxillary,
ethmoid, and sphenoid sinuses bilaterally, but could be also
counted by the fact that the patient was intubated.  The
patient continued to spike.  She was tested multiple times
for Clostridium difficile toxin all of which were negative.
The patient had a small volume diarrhea.  Patient was started
empirically on po Flagyl on [**2-3**].  In addition, the
patient's right IJ was switched to a left IJ on [**2-4**].  The
catheter tips were negative.  After [**2-5**], patient remained
afebrile, and her white count came down.  All the patient's
blood culture data was negative.

2. Pulmonary:  Initially patient was placed on AC mode.
Esophageal balloon tracings determined that the patient
required high PEEPs secondary to high intrathoracic pressure.
Initially, the patient met criteria for ARDS, although, her
pAO2/FIO2 fraction quickly improved.  Patient was tried
multiple times on pressure support, however, failed secondary
to episodes of hypoxia.  These appeared to be related to poor
sedation or moving, but sometimes occurred in the absence of
any kind of stimulation.

Patient had a CT angiogram on [**2122-2-6**] to evaluate for
possible PE despite prophylaxis.  This showed a limited CT
angiogram of the chest due to low rate of injection.  No
pulmonary embolus was noted in the central large pulmonary
arteries.  However, it also showed multilobar dense
consolidation and atelectatic changes with bilateral pleural
effusions.  Thus, the patient had no interval improvement in
her chest CT scan from [**2-1**].  Bilateral lower extremity
noninvasive ultrasounds were negative for any deep venous
thrombosis.

At this time, we believe that the patient still has a large
shunt secondary to her multilobar pneumonia which appears to
be resolving quite slowly.  Also, because of her large volume
overload for the course of the hospitalization, the patient
easily goes into pulmonary edema even if it is not picked up
on chest x-ray.  At this time, we will continue AC
ventilation until further more aggressive diuresis is
attained.

3. Sepsis:  The patient initially met criteria for SIRS, in
addition to having hypotension.  She received 72 hours of
Xigris, which was stopped secondary to bleeding from a
central line site.  She received aggressive fluid
resuscitation and became 20 liters positive for her
admission.  Patient quickly came off of pressors.

4. FEN:  As already noted, the patient is 20 liters positive
for admission.  IV Lasix alone was not getting her negative.
Patient was started on a Lasix drip on [**2-5**] with excellent
diuresis.  However, because of this drip, she became
hypernatremic with a contraction alkalosis.  The patient was
given free water boluses for her hypernatremia which adheres
to control it.  She was also checked q6h for her potassium
level and was aggressively repleted.

5. Heme:  The patient's hematocrit initially was dropping,
largely dilutional.  However, she kept on having a slow drop.
This was thought to be secondary to aggressive phlebotomy.
Hemolysis laboratories were negative.  No transfusions were
indicated.

6. Acid base:  Initially, the patient had a metabolic
acidosis, nongap, likely from diarrhea, and dilutional
component.  This resolved.  Currently, the patient has a
metabolic alkalosis likely from aggressive diuresis.  Patient
was started on Diamox for bicarb wasting.

7. Renal:  Patient had a decrease in urine output on [**1-30**].
She was found to have ATN on the basis of multiple
muddy-brown casts in her urine.  We believe 