Admission Date:  [**2112-2-5**]     Discharge Date:  [**2112-2-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2055-3-10**]     Sex:  F

Service:  ONCOLOGY MEDICINE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 56 year old female
with metastatic nonsmall cell lung cancer admitted with
hypoxia and shortness of breath for approximately one week
and left sided chest pain.  She presented with an oxygen
saturation of 83%, electrocardiographic changes consistent
with pericarditis, positive cardiac enzymes, and a sizeable
circumferential pericardial effusion (early tamponade).
Status post pericardial drainage.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Further workup revealed worsening
opacification in the left lower lobe, extrinsically
obstructing tumor compressing on the left bronchus.  She was
treated with Zosyn for presumptive postobstructive pneumonia.
Her course was complicated by tachycardia, atrial flutter.
She was maintained on Amiodarone drip and converted to sinus
within 24 hours.

After ongoing discussions with the pulmonary team regarding
management of the endobronchial lesion, the patient decided
she did not want to be intubated (which would be required to
be perform an endobronchial procedure).  Her code status
changed to DNR/DNI.  She was maintained on steroids and
antibiotics until she further decompensated for a respiratory
standpoint.  This further decompensation was attributed to
progression of her underlying carcinoma.  In discussions with
the patient's family and partner, it was decided during this
terminal respiratory decompensation to proceed to comfort
care only.  At that time, antibiotics and all other
aggressive measures were withdrawn.  The patient expired at
2:00 p.m. on [**2112-2-10**].

PRIMARY CAUSE OF DEATH:  Respiratory failure.

UNDERLYING CAUSE OF DEATH:  Nonsmall cell lung carcinoma.

An autopsy was requested and refused by the patient's partner
and family.  It was felt that it would not be in the
patient's best interest.   Again, the time of expiration was
2:00 p.m. on [**2112-2-10**].




                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 15108**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3282**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 17844**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2112-2-10**]  15:49
T:  [**2112-2-10**]  18:38
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
