Admission Date:  [**2169-12-29**]              Discharge Date:   [**2170-1-15**]

Date of Birth:  [**2125-3-6**]             Sex:   F

Service: SURGERY

Allergies:
Patient recorded as having No Known Allergies to Drugs

Attending:[**First Name3 (LF) 1781**]
Chief Complaint:
left ovarian remnant

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
1. Examination under anesthesia, exploratory laparotomy, lysis
of adhesions, left ureterolysis, resection of ovarian remnant
from the left pelvic sidewall, resection of ovarian remnant from
the right
pelvic sidewall, rigid proctosigmoidoscopy.

2.  External iliac artery arteriotomy primary closure of
iatrogenic laceration of external iliac artery.

3. Cystoscopy.

4. Left ureteral stent placement.

5. Right lower extremity 4-compartment fasciotomies.

6.  Exploration of right groin, thrombectomy of right common
femoral artery, superficial femoral artery, and profunda femoral
artery, with bovine patch angioplasty


History of Present Illness:
This is a 44 year old female who is about to undergo an
exploratory laparotomy and excision of left ovarian mass. The
GYN/Onc service has requested a preoperative ureteral stent
placement to aid with their dissection. The patient has signed a
consent form saying she understands the risks and benefits
involved with this procedure and wishes to proceed.


Past Medical History:
Past Medical History:
- endometriosis
- Ulcerative Colitis
- asthma
- allopecia


Social History:
SHx:
single, never married, no kids, lives with her sister and 4
dogs, working on her 2nd graduate degree in regulatory affairs
(she works in quality control with a company that makes surgical

equipment). Quit tobacco 8 years ago, occ etoh, no drugs.



Family History:
FamHx: CAD in both parents, 3 sibs all healthy, no strokes,
seizures.

Physical Exam:
PE:

AFVSS

NEURO:

PERRL / EOMI

MAE equally

Answers simple commands

Neg pronator drift

Sensation intact to ST

2 plus DTR

Neg Babinski

HEENT:

NCAT

Neg lesions nares, oral pharnyx, auditory

Supple / FAROM

neg lyphandopathy, supra clavicular nodes

LUNGS: CTA b/l

CARDIAC: RRR without murmers

ABDOMEN: Soft, NTTP, ND, pos BS, neg CVA tenderness, surgical
incision C/D/I

EXT:

rle - palp fem, [**Doctor Last Name **], pt, dp / fasciotomy surgical site wit vac /
slight edema with slight erythema of RLE.

lle - palp fem, [**Doctor Last Name **], pt, dp


Pertinent Results:
[**2170-1-13**]

WBC-12.6* RBC-3.36* Hgb-10.1* Hct-29.5* MCV-88 MCH-30.0
MCHC-34.2 RDW-14.7 Plt Ct-753*

[**2170-1-13**]

PT-12.9 PTT-27.5 INR(PT)-1.1

[**2169-12-30**]

Fibrino-158

[**2170-1-13**]

Glucose-102 UreaN-12 Creat-0.8 Na-133 K-4.3 Cl-100 HCO3-23
AnGap-14

[**2170-1-13**]

Calcium-8.9 Phos-4.5 Mg-1.9

[**2170-1-11**]

Color-Yellow Appear-Clear Sp [**Last Name (un) **]-1.014

[**2170-1-7**] 8:02 PM

CT HEAD W/ & W/O CONTRAST

HISTORY: Mental status change, thrombectomy and right lower
extremity fasciotomy.

NONCONTRAST HEAD CT: There are no comparisons. There is no
intracranial hemorrhage, shift of normally midline structures,
or mass effect. The [**Doctor Last Name 352**]- white matter differentiation remains
intact. There is no evidence of a major vascular territorial
infarct. There is no hydrocephalus. There is slight asymmetry of
the occipital horns of the lateral ventricles, of uncertain
significance. There is mucosal thickening within both maxillary
sinuses. There is mucosal thickening within the sphenoid
sinuses, with air-fluid levels. There is minimal mucosal
thickening within the ethmoid air cells.

IMPRESSION:

1. No intracranial hemorrhage or mass effect.

2. Sinus disease as described above

[**2170-1-11**]

EEG Study

OBJECT: R/O EPILEPSY.

FINDINGS:

ABNORMALITY #1: A single sharp transient was seen in stage II
sleep
from the left anterior sylvian to mid-temporal region.

BACKGROUND: Was a posterior 11 Hz rhythm that attenuated to eye
opening.

HYPERVENTILATION: Was contraindicated.

INTERMITTENT PHOTIC STIMULATION: Was contraindicated.

SLEEP: The patient drowsed frequently and progressed to stage II
sleep
on several occasions without further abnormalities seen other
than
Abnormality #1 above.

CARDIAC MONITOR: Showed a tachycardia at times up to 120 bpm.

IMPRESSION: Abnormal awake and light sleep EEG due to a single
isolated
sharp transient from the left anterior sylvian to mid-temporal
region
suggestive of an epileptiform abnormality. A repeat study with
minisphenoidals may be of further diagnostic benefit to assess
this
abnormality. No other lateralizing abnormalities were seen.


INTERPRETED BY: [**Last Name (LF) **],[**First Name3 (LF) 20**] C.

[**2170-1-11**]

URINE Blood-LG Nitrite-NEG Protein-TR Glucose-NEG Ketone-NEG
Bilirub-NEG Urobiln-NEG pH-6.5 Leuks-NEG

[**2170-1-11**]

URINE RBC-[**12-31**]* WBC-0-2 Bacteri-FEW Yeast-NONE Epi-0-2

[**2170-1-12**]**

WOUND CULTURE (Final [**2170-1-12**]):    No significant growth.

RADIOLOGY  Final Report

[**2170-1-10**] 1:21 PM

UNILAT LOWER EXT VEINS RIGHT

CLINICAL DETAILS: Lower limb edema, evaluate for DVT.

FINDINGS: The right lower limb veins are patent and compressible
with normal phasic venous flow and increased venous return with
calf compression on color Doppler.

The contralateral left common femoral vein is patent with normal
venous flow.

Some generalized edema noted along the proximal right thigh, no
collection.

CONCLUSION: No right lower limb deep venous thrombosis.

RADIOLOGY  Final Report

[**2170-1-10**]

CHEST (PA & LAT)

INDICATION: Rising white blood cell count, question pneumonia.

FINDINGS: No consolidations are present. No pleural effusions
are present. There is persistent mild elevation of the right
hemidiaphragm. Right subclavian catheter has been removed. The
cardiac and mediastinal silhouettes are stable.

IMPRESSION: No evidence for acute pulmonary disease.

[**2170-1-7**]

CT ABDOMEN W/CONTRAST; CT PELVIS W/CONTRAST

CONTRAST: Oral contrast and 100 cc of IV Optiray contrast
administered due to the rapid rate of bolus injection required
for this study.

CT OF THE ABDOMEN WITH IV CONTRAST: Focal atelectasis is noted
at the right lung base. No pleural effusions or pulmonary
nodules are identified. The liver, spleen, gallbladder, adrenal
glands, right kidney, and pancreas are normal in appearance. A
focal hypodensity which is too small to characterize was noted
in the superior pole of the left kidney, which is otherwise
normal in appearance. There is no hydronephrosis. The bowel is
normal, without evidence of bowel wall thickening or dilatation.
No free intraperitoneal air is seen.

CT OF THE PELVIS WITH IV CONTRAST: There is free fluid noted
within the pelvis, which appears simple, and likely represents
post-surgical change. Some of this fluid tracks superiorly in
the right colic gutter. There is no bowel wall thickening or
dilatation of the rectum or distal colon. Foley catheter is seen
within the bladder, which is otherwise normal in appearance.
Small amount of stranding is noted anterior to the right common
femoral vessels, perhaps possibly relating to recent
intervention.

BONE WINDOWS: No suspicious lytic or sclerotic lesions are
identified.

CT RECONSTRUCTIONS: Multiplanar reconstructions were essential
in delineating the anatomy and pathology.

IMPRESSION:

1. Free fluid is noted within the pelvis, which is likely
post-surgical. No inflammatory phlegmon or more mature abscess
collections are identified.
2. Focal hypodensity within the superior pole of the left
kidney, which is too small to characterize.


Brief Hospital Course:
Ptad mitted on [**2169-12-29**]

Pt brought to the OR underwent a procedure for removal of left
ovarion remenant. During the procedure there was a complication
of laceration of the external iliac artery. Vascular surgery was
consulted. They repaired the external artery. Pt had signiciant
blood loss. This was repleted. Pt brought to the  ICU intubated.

On arrival to the ICU. It was noticed that the pt had a swollen
/ pulseless left leg. Pt brought back to the or for emergent
fasciotomy / with thrombectomy. Pt tolerated the procedure well.
She was transfered to the ICU in stable condition. Intubated.

[**2169-12-30**] - [**2170-1-4**]

Pt remain