Admission Date:  [**2168-4-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2168-4-30**]


Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 82-year-old gentleman
with known coronary artery disease, severe aortic stenosis
and a normal left ventricular ejection fraction who presented
to the Emergency Department with an approximately five day
history of cough, shortness of breath, dyspnea on exertion
and sputum production.  He also had low grade fevers at the
time.  He denied chest pain, nausea or vomiting associated
with these symptoms.  He was seen by his primary care
physician who reportedly obtained a chest x-ray which
revealed a right lower lobe and right middle lobe infiltrate
and he was started on azithromycin.  The symptoms worsened
and the patient was sent to the Emergency Department.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of
1.6.
2.  Hypertension
3.  Hypercholesterolemia
4.  Status post appendectomy 40 years ago
5.  Severe aortic stenosis with a most recent echocardiogram
from about two years prior to admission which revealed a left
ventricular ejection fraction of 53% and aortic valve area of
0.9 cm squared.
6.  The patient also has restrictive lung disease.
7.  He is also status post three unit upper gastrointestinal
bleed in [**2167-9-16**] in which he was found at that time to
have a gastric ulcer and he was negative for Helicobacter
pylori.

PREOPERATIVE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Zestril 40 mg po qd
2.  Procardia XL 60 mg po qd

ALLERGIES:  The patient states no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone.  He has a 60 to 80
pack year smoking history and quit approximately 10 years ago
and denies alcohol intake.

On initial evaluation in the Emergency Room, the patient was
afebrile.  He was found to be in sinus tachycardia with a
rate of 125.  He had a blood pressure of 128/66, respiratory
rate in the high 20s and a room air oxygen saturation of 77%
He had an elevated white blood cell count to 15,000 with a
left shift.  Chest x-ray showed bilateral infiltrates and a
questionable right effusion.  The patient was noted at the
time to have new ST depressions in V2 through V6 on his
electrocardiogram.

ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL:  Elderly male patient in moderate respiratory
distress.
HEAD, EARS, EYES, NOSE AND THROAT:  Unremarkable.
NECK:  Without bruits.
CARDIOVASCULAR:  Heart sounds were difficult to appreciate
secondary to breath sounds.
LUNGS:  Diffuse inspiratory and expiratory crackles with
occasional wheezes, right side greater than left.
ABDOMEN:  Obese, slightly distended, but nontender and
positive bowel sounds.
EXTREMITIES:  1+ edema bilaterally.  The patient had palpable
pulses in both of his feet and neurologically was grossly
intact.

ADMISSION LABORATORY VALUES:  White blood cell count of
14.9000, hematocrit 27.3, serum sodium of 130 and serum
creatinine of 1.9 with a glucose of 180.  The rest of his
labs on admission were unremarkable.  The patient did have,
in addition, a positive troponin with the first one being 13
and the second one being 15.  The patient was admitted to the
medicine service with a presumed diagnosis of pneumonia.  He
was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit and placed on
levofloxacin awaiting sputum culture results.  The patient
was also presumed to be in congestive heart failure which was
treated with intravenous diuretics and also had a presumed
diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at the
time.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit to be followed from a pulmonary
standpoint as well as close cardiac monitoring.  Over the
next few days in the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the patient
was treated with antibiotics as well as noninvasive
ventilation with a BIPAP mask.  The patient was taken to the
cardiac catheterization lab on [**2168-4-8**] due to
continued episodes of congestive heart failure while being
treated for pneumonia.  Catheterization revealed a severe
calcific aortic stenosis as well as moderate mid LAD lesion,
faint collaterals to the right coronary artery, severely
tortuous right iliac artery and occluded left iliac.  The
patient was taken to the Operating Room on [**2168-4-12**]
by Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] where he underwent an aortic valve
replacement with a 21 mm pericardial valve.  He also had
repair of an ascending aortic dissection with a patch graft
and he had a coronary artery bypass graft x2 with a left
internal mammary artery to the LAD and a saphenous vein off
of the left internal mammary artery graft to the OM.

Postoperatively, the patient was on an epinephrine drip.  He
was transported from the Operating Room to the Cardiac
Surgery Recovery Unit.  The patient had some significant
hypotension on the night of surgery in the Cardiac Surgery
Recovery Unit and an emergent transesophageal echocardiogram
was obtained which showed no significant change from his
previous echocardiogram done intraoperatively and no new
aortic dissection.

On postoperative day #1, the patient was on epinephrine drip
as well as lidocaine, nitroglycerin, propofol and insulin
drip.  He had a temperature to 101.3??????.  He was in normal
sinus rhythm.  He was stable hemodynamically on the
aforementioned drip and he had been kept sedated due to
initial hemodynamic instability.  Later in the day, the
patient was noted to have seizure activity and still had not
woken up despite his sedation being discontinued.  The
patient was taken for an emergent head CT scan which showed
complete wire shed distribution hypodensity on the right
anterior to posteriorly with the same pattern but less
confluent on the left.  The neurology consult was obtained
and it was their impression that the patient had had a
significant cerebrovascular accident intraoperatively or
postoperatively.  It was their recommendation to obtain an
EEG to treat the seizure activity with Dilantin, as well as
benzodiazepines and to hold off sedation other than the
seizure treatments and to evaluate her fever source.

The patient, over the next few days, remained on full
ventilator support.  The patient was begun on tube feeds
while his neurologic status was being closely monitored.
While being supported over the next few days in the Intensive
Care Unit, the patient was noted to have stabilized
hemodynamically.  His Swan-Ganz catheter was discontinued on
the morning of postoperative day #5.  He remained on
nitroglycerin for blood pressure control and Dilantin and he
was being increased on his tube feeds.  Later in the day, on
postoperative day #5, the patient was noted to have
hemoptysis.  His endotracheal tube was changed to a larger
tube to facilitate the bronchoscope and the patient had a
bronchoscopy performed by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 951**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 952**] who noted some
blood in the area of the right upper lobe which was cleaned
out and there was no continuing bleeding source identified.
Some old clots had been removed during the time of
bronchoscopy.

On postoperative day #6, the patient was difficult to assess
for neurologic status because he had gotten some sedation to
tolerate the bronchoscopy.  On postoperative day #7, the
patient was noted to have a large amount of serous fluid from
his sternal incision.  He had a low grade fever at the time
without elevation in his white blood cell count.  Due to
patient's questionable neurologic status, he was continued to
be fully supported in the Intensive Care Unit with tube
feedings and ventilator support.  He had tolerated weaning of
his ventilator support to a CPAP load over the next few days.
He was placed on vancomycin and levofloxacin due to the
patient's previous pneumonia, as well as having some sternal
drainage.  His tube feedings had been tolerated well at goal
rate.  Sputum cultures obtained were positive for gram
positive cocci as well as yeast.

On postoperative day #11, [**2168-4-23**], the patient was
taken to the Operating Room for a sternal dehiscence.  He
underwent a mediastinal exploration with a Robicsek weave of
his sternum at that time.  The patient tolerated the
procedure well.  He had 