Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 56375**]
Admission Date: [**2103-4-30**]
Discharge Date: [**2103-7-3**]
Date of Birth:  [**2103-4-30**]
Sex:  F
Service: Neonatology

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  28 and 0/7 week gestation, twin
number two, delivered pre term due to severe pregnancy
induced hypertension and intrauterine growth restriction of
this twin.

PRENATAL HISTORY:  Mother is a 22 year old, Gravida IV, Para
I, now [**Name (NI) 1105**] mother.  Prenatal screens:  AB  positive, antibody
negative, hepatitis B surface antigen positive.  RPR
nonreactive.  Rubella immune.  GBS unknown.  Pregnancy
notable for dichorionic, diamniotic, spontaneous twin
gestation; progressive growth discrepancy.  [**4-26**] estimated
fetal weight 1223 grams for twin A and 523 grams for this
twin.  Also complicated by pregnancy induced hypertension.
Admitted on [**4-24**] in transport from [**Hospital 1474**] Hospital.
Ultrasound showed absent end diastolic flow.  Biophysical
profile of [**7-1**] on both twins.  Betamethasone complete.

On the day of delivery, mother experienced visual changes and
increased blood pressure so the decision was made to deliver
by cesarean section.  Rupture of membranes occurred at the
time of delivery.  No maternal fever and intrapartum
antibiotic prophylaxis was not given.

This twin emerged with spontaneous cry. Heart rate greater
than 100 but grunting, flaring and retracting were noted.
Apgars were six at one minute and seven at five minutes.
Infant was intubated in the delivery room and transferred to
the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit without difficulty.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Birth weight 612 grams (less than 10th
percentile); length 30 cm (less than 10th percentile); head
circumference 23 cm (less than 10th percentile).  Non
dysmorphic with overall appearance consistent with
gestational age except by size.  Anterior fontanel soft, open
and flat.  Red reflex present bilaterally.  Palate intact.
Breath sounds diminished bilaterally with grunting, flaring
and retracting.  Regular rate and rhythm without murmur.  2
plus peripheral pulses, including femorals.  Abdomen benign
with three vessel cord.  No hepatosplenomegaly or masses.
Normal female external genitalia for gestational age.  Normal
back and extremities.  Skin:  Pink and well perfused.
Appropriate tone and strength.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
Respiratory: Maximum ventilatory settings on admission were
SIMV of 20, PIP 20; PEEP 5 and 21 percent FI02.  Infant
received a total of two doses of surfactant.  Ventilatory
settings were weaned and the infant was extubated to C-PAP on
day of life two.  Caffeine citrate was also started on day of
life two.

On day 25, the infant was noted to have profound apnea and
bradycardia, requiring reintubation.  Maximum ventilatory
settings at that time were a SIMV of 30, PIP 24, PEEP of 6
requiring 25 to 30 percent FI02.  Infant self-extubated on
day of life 34 to C-Pap and remained on C-Pap until day of
life 46 and was transitioned to nasal cannula, 75 cc to 125
cc.  The infant remains on nasal cannula, requiring 50 to 75
cc of flow.  She received a trial of Lasix for three days
from day of life 55 to 57.  On [**6-29**], Diuril was started
and she is currently on 40 mg per kg per day of Diuril.

Caffeine citrate was discontinued on [**7-2**]. The last apnea
nad bradycardia was on [**6-25**].

She also received Vitamin A for the prevention of chronic
lung disease for a total of 12 doses intramuscularly.

Cardiovascular:  The infant required Dopamine infusion on
admission to a maximum of 20 mcg per kg per minute.  She
weaned off of Dopamine by day of life two and has remained
hemodynamically stable throughout this hospitalization.  An
echocardiogram on day of life 10 revealed no patent ductus
arteriosus.  She continues to have a soft murmur that is
considered a flow murmur.

Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  The infant was initially
receiving nothing by mouth, 100 cc per kg per day.  On
admission, an umbilical arterial catheter and an umbilical
venous catheter were placed.  They were discontinued on day
of life six and a PICC was placed for feeding advancement and
parenteral nutrition.  Enteral feedings were started on day
of life four and she advanced to full volume feedings of 150
cc per kg per day by day of life 14.  The PICC was removed on
day of life 15.  Maximum caloric density of breast milk or
Similac Special Care 32 calories per ounce was achieved by
day of life 24.  The infant remains on Special Care 32
calories per ounce currently at 130 cc per kg per day po/pg.
She has tolerated feeding advancement without difficulty. The
most recent nutrition laboratory studies on day of life 44
showed an alkaline phosphatase of 440; calcium of 9.9;
phosphorus of 4.8.  The most recent electrolytes on [**7-3**] revealed the following: Na 140/K 4.4/Cl 96/CO2 37 .

She is currently on potassium chloride supplements, due to
her diuretic therapy.

Her current weight is 1870 grams; head circumference 30.5;
length 41.

Gastrointestinal:  Infant was started on single phototherapy
on day of life one.  She received phototherapy for a total of
three days.  Rebound bilirubin level on day of life four was
1.4 with a direct of 0.4 and the most recent bilirubin level
on day of life eight showed a total of 0.7 with a direct of
0.4.

Hematology:  Baby's CBC on admission showed a white blood
cell count of 4.9; hematocrit of 43 percent, platelets
123,000. Three neutrophils, 0 bands.  The infant received a
total of three packed red blood cell transfusions this
hospitalization.  A repeat CBC on day of life one showed a
white blood cell count of 5.6, hematocrit of 40.1 percent,
platelets 133,000.  52 neutrophils, 1 band.
The most recent hematocrit on [**7-3**] was 30.7 .
Reticulocyte count is 6.0.

Infectious disease:  Infant was placed on Ampicillin and
Gentamycin on admission and received 48 hours, due to
prematurity and respiratory distress. Blood cultures were
negative at 48 hours and the infant's antibiotics were
discontinued.

Due to maternal positive hepatitis B status, the
infant received hepatitis B vaccine and hepatitis B immune
globulin on admission.

The infant received a total of 7 days of Vancomycin and
Gentamycin for presumed sepsis, from day of life ten to day
of life 17.  Blood cultures at that time remained negative to
date.  Lumbar puncture results at that time showed a white
blood cell count of 4, RBC of 24, total protein of 90,
glucose of 51.  Viral cultures were sent on [**5-30**] for
influenza A, B and RSV, which were all negative.

On day of life 25, the infant was noted to have profound
apnea and required ventilatory support.  Vancomycin and
Gentamycin were again started at that time.  Infant was
treated for a total of 10 days of antibiotics for MSSA
tracheitis/pneumonia.  Sputum cultures were sensitive to
Oxacillin so once the sensitivities were available, the
infant was changed over to Oxacillin.  [**Hospital3 1810**]
infectious disease was consulted at that time and the
recommendation was to treat for 10 days.  Infectious disease
has signed off.  Blood cultures have remained negative.

Neurology:  Infant has had three head ultrasounds.  Head
ultrasound on day of life four and day of life 30 showed no
intraventricular hemorrhage; no periventricular leukomalacia.
Follow-up head ultrasound on [**6-22**] showed a question of a
small, right, grade I intraventricular hemorrhage, however,
when reviewed with other radiologists, it was thought to be
normal.

Sensory:  Infant will need a hearing screening prior to
discharge.

Ophthalmology:  Eyes examined most recently on [**6-18**],
revealing immaturity of the retinal vessels, zone three, but
no ROP as of yet.  A follow-up examination should be
scheduled for the week of [**7-9**].

Psychosocial:  [**Hospital1 69**] social
work was involved with the family.  The sibling was
discharged home in room air on [**6-25**].

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Currently nasal cannula, 50 cc, 100
percent FI02.  Former 28 week growth restricted infant. Now
30 and [**11-29**] week corrected.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  Discharged to level II nursery,
[**Hospital 1474**] Hospital.

PRIMARY PEDIATRICIAN:  [**First Name8 (NamePat