Admission Date: [**2101-12-18**]        Discharge Date: [**2101-12-27**]

Date of Birth:  [**2024-8-29**]        Sex:

Service:

DATE OF DEATH:  [**2101-12-26**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77-year-old
woman with a history of diabetes, end-stage renal disease,
hypertension, and congestive heart failure transferred from
an outside hospital for management of sepsis.  The patient
was recently discharged from an outside hospital to a rehab
on [**11-14**] after a 1-week admission for progressive weakness.
At that time she was found to have E-coli resistant to
ampicillin, cefazolin, and piperacillin, and had a head CT as
part of her workup which showed small vessel disease and
atrophy.  At the rehab upon discharge, she was noted to be
progressively short of breath.  Her chest x-ray showed a left
lower lobe pneumonia.  She received ceftriaxone on the
morning of admission and was sent to the Emergency Department
for further evaluation.  Note that the patient was only at
the rehab facility for a short amount of time.  At the
Emergency Department, the patient's oxygenation was noted to
be 89 percent on room air and she had respirations in the
30s.  She was subsequently intubated for respiratory failure.
Prior to transfer to our hospital, she became hypotensive and
was started on a dopamine drip.  Her heart rate on the drip
was noted to be high in the 150s, and she was treated with IV
diltiazem and Lopressor to help slow that down.  She also
received a 250 cc bolus of normal saline.  Upon arrival here
at [**Hospital1 18**], her blood pressure was 60/40 with a heart rate in
the 130s.  She was immediately bolused with normal saline and
the dopamine was changed to Levophed.  An A line was placed
and she was transferred to our medical ICU for further
management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Chronic anemia status post
cholecystectomy.

ALLERGIES:  She has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Medications on transfer were:
1.  Renagel.
2.  Aspirin.
3.  Nephrocaps.
4.  Megace.
5.  Reglan.
6.  Zoloft.
7.  Ritalin.
8.  Protonix.
9.  Rocephin.
10. Compazine.
11. Epogen.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, her temperature was 101
degrees, her blood pressure was 101/41, her ventilator
settings were assist-control with a tidal volume of 550, rate
of 14, PEEP of 5, and FIO2 of 50 percent.  Her ABG on that
was 7.34, 38, 97.  General, the patient was sedated, on the
vent.  Her neck was supple.  She had no JVD.  Cardiac exam
demonstrated that there was normal S1 and S2.  Respiratory
wise, she had decreased breath sounds at the bases, as well
as on the right side.  Her abdomen was soft and nontender.
Bowel sounds were present.  Extremities were cool.  She had
faint dorsalis pedis pulses.  Neurologic exam:  Again, she
was sedated.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, her white count was 23.2, her
hematocrit was 34, her platelets were 360, her coags were
normal.  Her Chem-7 showed sodium of 138, potassium of 4.0,
chloride of 98, bicarbonate of 23, BUN of 23, creatinine of
3.1, and glucose of 435.  Her LFTs were normal except for an
elevated alkaline phosphatase of 280.  Her lactate was noted
to be 1.7.

RADIOGRAPHIC STUDIES:  Chest x-ray showed right middle lobe
infiltrate and a left retrocardiac infiltrate.  Her EKG
showed sinus rhythm at 90 beats per minute, a low voltage
with normal axis and intervals.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 77-year-old woman with a
history of diabetes, end-stage renal disease, hypertension,
basically now admitted for septicemia and hypovolemic shock
in addition to respiratory failure.  In terms of the
patient's septic shock, she was continued on the Levophed and
vasopressin to keep her mean arterial pressures above 65.
She was started on broad spectrum antibiotics initially with
Zosyn.  Subsequent blood cultures came back MRSA positive and
a sputum culture came back MRSA positive, so she was switched
to solo treatment with vancomycin.  In terms of her
respiratory failure, the patient remained ventilated
throughout the course of her admission.  ABGs were checked
periodically and showed very little improvement in her
respiratory status.  Throughout the course of the patient's
hospitalization, she had frequent episodes of dropping her
blood pressure into the 50 systolic.  Typically, it would
respond to increased doses of the pressors; however, by
hospital day number 10, the patient had a little improvement
in her overall hemodynamic status.  Neurologically, she was
not alert or responsive by hospital day number 10 and that
was off sedation.  At that point, the family decided to make
the patient comfort measures only.  All antibiotics and
pressors were discontinued at that time.  The patient died on
hospital day number 10.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Expired.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Not applicable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Septicemia.
Respiratory failure.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Not applicable.

FOLLOW-UP PLANS:  Not applicable.



                        [**Last Name (LF) 2466**],[**First Name3 (LF) 2467**] 12-746

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 267**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2102-6-5**] 15:51:56
T:  [**2102-6-6**] 08:00:20
Job#:  [**Job Number 53864**]
