Admission Date:  [**2113-4-20**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2049-2-25**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 64-year-old male
with a past medical history of hypertension, GERD,
hypercholesterolemia, AAA, and emphysema who was transferred
from [**Hospital1 18**] from [**Hospital **] Hospital with acidemia, intubated,
and on Neo-Synephrine for hypotension.  Two nights prior to
admission, the patient had upper chest and neck pain at rest
that resolved on its own.  On the night of admission, the
patient was sitting watching T.V. and felt "uncomfortable".
He walked up the stairs and called to his wife that he was
short of breath.  She found him to be diaphoretic.  He
syncopized prior to EMS arrival.  EMS found the patient
bradypneic with oxygen saturations 69% in room air.  He was
taken to [**Hospital **] Hospital where he was intubated for an
initial ABG of 7.15/80/107.  A chest x-ray at that time was
consistent with congestive heart failure.  An EKG showed 3 to
[**Street Address(2) 5366**] depressions in V3 through V6.  The patient had a
blood pressure of 228/120.  He received 80 mg of Lasix, 5 mg
of IV Lopressor, aspirin, and was placed on nitroglycerin and
heparin drips.  After being started on the nitroglycerin drip
his systolic blood pressure dropped to the 60s.  At that
time, nitroglycerin was discontinued and he was started on
Neo-Synephrine.  His initial cardiac enzymes were negative.

In [**2112-11-26**], the patient was seen at [**Hospital **] Hospital
for persistent mid upper chest to neck pain that was not
associated with dysphagia.  CT scan showed an aortic aneurysm
and erythematous blebs.  In addition, the patient was seen in
[**Hospital **] Clinic in [**2112-1-27**] for substernal chest pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  1.5 pack per day smoker.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  AAA.
5.  Bullous emphysema.
6.  GERD.
7.  Gallstone pancreatitis.
8.  Liver disease, not otherwise specified:  Fatty infiltrate
of liver seen on CT scan in [**2112-11-26**].
9.  Cystic kidneys, some appeared hemorrhagic on CT scan in
[**2112-11-26**].
10. Low attenuation area in his liver (likely a cyst seen on
CT scan).
11. Sigmoid diverticula.
12. Benign colon mass.
13. As per the patient's wife's report, the patient had an
exercise stress test recently that was negative.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1.  Toprol 200.
2.  Norvasc 5.
3.  Aspirin 81.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Positive smoking history.  Denied alcohol
and drug use.  He is married and has two children.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  Temperature
98.8, heart rate 77, blood pressure 113/58.  General:  The
patient is an overweight, middle aged male who was intubated
on arrival.  HEENT:  Moist mucous membranes.  Neck:  Thick.
Unable to appreciate JVD.  Heart:  Soft S1, S2, no murmur.
Lungs:  Crackles and wheezes bilaterally.  Extremities:
There was 1+ edema to the shins bilaterally.  Skin:  Cool and
clammy.  Neurologic:  Answers questions appropriately.
Abdomen:  Normoactive bowel sounds.  Soft, nontender.  No
bruits or palpable mass.  There was 1+ dorsalis pedis and
posterior tibial on the right lower extremity, 1+ posterior
tibial in the left lower extremity, and 2+ dorsalis pedis in
the left lower extremity.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  The initial EKG showed sinus
tachycardia at 120s, normal axis and intervals, left atrial
enlargement, borderline LVH, ST depressions 3-4 mm in V3
through V6, T wave inversions in II, III, and aVF, with small
inferior T waves.

Laboratories were significant for K of 3.9, creatinine 1.5,
glucose 209.  White count 14.6, hematocrit 44.6.

His initial ventilatory settings were 8 CV:  Tidal volume
650, respiratory rate 20, PEEP 5, FI02 70%, PIP 34,
.................... 22.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 64-year-old gentleman with
a history of aortic aneurysm, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, who presents with chest pain and
shortness of breath and found to have lateral ST depressions
with normal cardiac enzymes and hypotension following
nitroglycerin, Lasix, and intubation.

1.  RESPIRATORY FAILURE:  The patient was initially intubated
for hypercarbic and hypoxic respiratory failure.  The patient
was in CHF upon arrival.  He was aggressively diuresed.  He
was on a Natrecor drip with intermittent Lasix for a short
period of time.  He diuresed well and was able to be
extubated within a few days.  The patient was hypoxic again
after receiving 3 liters of IV fluid later during his
hospitalization after his fem-fem bypass.  Again, he was
diuresed and extubated successfully.

2.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  When the patient first arrived
to the hospital, he received a large dye load from a CT of
his aorta.  Therefore, cardiac catheterization was postponed
to protect his kidneys.  He eventually had a cardiac
catheterization that showed an 80% mid right coronary artery
lesion, 90% distal right coronary artery lesion, RPL of 100%,
proximal LAD 70%, diagonal I 100%, proximal circumflex 100%,
intermedius 60, and a normal LIMA.  Because he was diagnosed
with three vessel disease, Cardiothoracic Surgery was
consulted.  The patient declined CABG.  His care was
transferred from Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and the patient
underwent a recatheterization with successful stent
placement.  His second cardiac catheterization was done by
the right brachial artery.

The findings at cardiac catheterization showed an LAD that
was 80% occluded prestent and then 0% residual, left
circumflex 100%, right coronary artery 70% proximal, 99%
distal, with a PLV 100%.  He received two stents to his RCA
and one to the LAD.  The patient was started on aspirin,
Plavix, and Atorvostatin.  In addition, he was maintained on
a beta blocker.  Prior to discharge, the patient will be
restarted on an ACE inhibitor.  He had an echocardiogram that
showed an ejection fraction of 50% with no valvular disease.
The patient will follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] as an outpatient.

3.  ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSM:  The patient came in with
chest pain and he had a CT angiogram to rule out aortic
aneurysm dissection.  There was no dissection noted on CT
scan.

4.  HYPERTENSION:  The patient was maintained on a beta
blocker and hydralazine.  Norvasc was added for better blood
pressure control.  Prior to discharge, the patient will be
transitioned over from Hydralazine and Norvasc to an ACE
inhibitor.  The ACE inhibitor will be titrated up as
tolerated.

5.  ISCHEMIC LEG:  The patient had acute onset of a pulseless
cold painful left lower extremity.  Vascular Surgery was
consulted and the patient was taken for an urgent
thrombectomy and a fem-fem bypass.  He had a repeat
echocardiogram with a bubble study that was of poor quality
and could not rule out a PFO.  The day after his surgery, the
patient's platelets were in the 90s.  This was in the setting
of receiving heparin for approximately one week.  A HIT
antibody test was sent and came back.  Hematology/Oncology
was consulted and the patient was thought to have HIT type 1
which is not associated with thrombus.  The patient has had a
history of a hypercoagulable workup at an outside facility
([**Hospital6 **]) for unknown reason.  Therefore, the
patient was started on Coumadin with a heparin bridge prior
to discharge.  His goal INR is [**2-28**].  He will follow-up with
frequent blood draws as an outpatient to monitor his INR and
to adjust his Coumadin level.  The patient is to follow-up in
two weeks time for removal of his staples from his surgery.
A calcified atheromatous plaque was found in the right
femoral artery and left femoral plaque was consistent with a
thrombus.

6.  THROMBOCYTOPENIA:  Unclear of etiology.  Thrombocytopenia
occurred in the setting of heparin; however HIT antibody was
negative.  Hematology/Oncology Service believes that the
patient most likely has HIT type 1 which is not associated
with antibodies or thrombus.  While waiting for the antibody
test to come back, the patient was started on Argatroban for
anticoagulation.

7.  INCREASED G