Admission Date:  [**2201-1-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2201-2-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2146-1-30**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU/[**Company 191**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Diarrhea, lightheadedness.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54 year-old
Chinese speaking man who presents with a seven day history of
chills, sweats and a three day history of diarrhea.  The
patient was in his usual state of health until seven days ago
when he had experience dry mouth, urinary frequency, chills
and sweats.  The patient denies fever, burning on urination,
vision changes, diarrhea, abdominal or flank pian.  The
patient does not check his finger sticks despite being a
diabetic.  The patient noted three days prior to admission
onset of nonbloody diarrhea, perfuse at times, progressive
shortness of breath.  Today [**1-8**] the patient felt to be ill
for his usual phototherapy session that he has for his
nodularis pruritus.  Primary care physician noted he was
orthostatic and was sent to the Emergency Department.  In the
Emergency Department he was given intravenous fluids.  His
temperature was noted to be 103 with rigors.  He was cultured
and given antibiotics, Levo and Flagyl with a finger stick
noted to be at 500.  The patient was admitted to the
Intensive Care Unit for insulin drip for diabetic
ketoacidosis, acute renal failure, diarrhea, fever, chills,
dehydration, rehydration.  Of note, the patient on
antibiotics for skin lesions for about two to four weeks.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diabetes type 2.
3.  Nocturia.
4.  Prurigo.
5.  Medullarly sponge kidney.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Phototherapy.
2.  Bactrim steroid creme.
3.  Atarax prn.
4.  Atenolol.
5.  Oral hypoglycemic type unknown at present.

ALLERGIES:  Aspirin gives him hives.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother died of uterine cancer.  Father died
of lung cancer, diabetes and eczema.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco, rare ETOH use.  He was a chef in
restaurant.  Divorced with two children.  His sister's name
is [**Name (NI) **] at cell phone [**Telephone/Fax (1) 25998**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs temperature 99,
temperature max of 103.  Blood pressure 106/62.  Heart rate
96.  Respiratory rate 36.  97% on room air.  General, he is a
middle aged man in no acute distress resting comfortably.
HEENT pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements intact.  Oropharynx moist with white
plaque on tongue.  Cardiovascular regular rate and rhythm.
Normal S1 and S2 with a systolic ejection murmur at the left
upper sternal border.  Cardiovascular bilaterally clear to
auscultation with decreased lung sounds at the bases.
Abdomen distended, tympanic, soft, nontender, increased bowel
sounds.  Guaiac negative in the Emergency Department.
Extremities no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Pulses intact
bilaterally.  Skin with diffuse nodules over entire body,
many with excoriating lesions, face spared.  Neurological
alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves II through
XII intact, nonfocal examination.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count with 19.3, hematocrit
37.8, platelets 182, 91 NOB, 5 L, 3 M, .1 E, .2 B, INR 1.3,
CK 83, alkaline phosphatase 125, tox negative. ALT 29,
amylase 124, lipase 79, AST 34, TB .8.  Urinalysis 1.020,
large blood, greater then 300 protein, trace glucose, trace
ketones, negative nitrates, bilirubin moderate LE, 3 to 5 red
blood cells, greater then 50 white blood cells, many
bacteria, no squamous epithelial.  Electrolyte panel on 10:20
p.m., sodium 128, K 3.3, chloride of 96, bicarb 11, BUN 110,
creatinine 6.1, glucose 194, calcium 6.2, phos 4.8, mag 1.7.
Urine electrolytes creatinine 52, sodium 65, K 12, chloride
50, FENA 6%.  Blood cultures and urine cultures were taken.
Electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm at 94, axis normal, QRS
borderline, Q and 3, T wave inversion in 3, V3, V1.  No ST
changes, acute line, borderline QRS with T wave inversion in
V3.  Chest x-ray showed no acute process.  Renal ultrasound
showed no hydro, large left kidney stone, multiple small
echogenic shadows on right, few simple cysts, largely
unchanged with prior study.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Kidney:  The patient presents with
fever, hypotension, elevated white blood cell count, elevated
white blood cells in urine, urine culture grew final staph
aureus coagulase positive.  MRI was performed, which
demonstrated significant left pyelonephritis, specifically
the impression from the MR on [**2201-1-14**] was an enlarged
inflamed left kidney with very heterogenous striated contrast
enhancement consistent with infection and areas of
nonenhancement that likely represent infarction.  The
differential included fulminant pyelonephritis, superimposed
on underlying sponge kidney, as well as
xanthogranulomatosis, pyelonephritis.  The patient was
initially treated with Vancomycin and Ox and then Oxacillin.
The antibiotic was switched to Cefazolin in the setting or
rising liver function tests, amylase and lipase.  Those
values trended down on Cefazolin.  The patient was discharged
on a six to eight week course of intravenous antibiotics for
pyelonephritis.

2.  Infectious disease:  Blood cultures were obtained on
arrival.  Blood cultures showed MSSA.  As a result the
patient was maintained on intravenous antibiotics as noted
above.  It was felt the likely source of the MSSA was from
the ulcerated skin lesions of the patient.  The patient with
fever, high white blood cell count, hypotension and
bacteremia and the patient was felt to be septic.  TTE and
then a transesophageal echocardiogram was performed to rule
out endocarditis, both were negative.  Several screening
urine and blood cultures were performed, which were negative.
The patient's white blood cell count went down.  The patient
was afebrile for the majority of his hospitalization.  Of
note, the MR demonstrated multiple cystic lesions in the
kidney, however, it was concluded by the many specialists
that drainage of the cyst in the setting of the patient's
clinical improvement as well as improvement of the patient's
BUN and creatinine made that procedure not indicated during
his hospitalization.  The patient will need screening
cultures at the conclusion of his antibiotic course.  At that
time it will be decided whether the patient should have
either a biopsy and/or removal of the patient's kidney.

3.  Diabetes:  Patient with a history of type 2 diabetes
likely not well controlled at home.  The patient not liking
to use insulin.  The patient maintained on insulin throughout
his hospitalization and discharged with nursing staff and
nursing education regarding insulin.

4.  Skin:  Patient with a history of nodularis prurigo.  The
patient was provided steroid cream in house.  The patient
continued to be hypotensive and tachycardic in house during
hospital hospitalization.  Endocrine was consulted to further
assess.  A cortisol showed likely adrenal insufficiency
secondary to steroid cream and patient initiated on steroid
supplementation.  The patient's hypotension and tachycardia
improved.  The patient was seen by dermatology in house and
will be followed.  The patient was initially given Flagyl in
house, however, given multiple negative C-difficile panels
the patient's Flagyl was discontinued.  MR of the abdomen was
notable only for the kidney problems as the patient's
diarrhea improved.

5.  Pulmonary:  The patient of note had a chest x-ray on
admission, which was negative for infection, however, during
the hospitalization given the patient's continued tachycardia
and hypotension a VQ scan was performed to evaluate for
possible PE.  The preliminary chest x-ray demonstrated a
pneumonia.  The patient was started on Levaquin.

6.  Endocrine:  Patient with a history of anemia.  The
patient provided with iron and Epogen in house.

Care of this patient was transferred on [**2-2**].  Dictation will
be continued.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Sepsis.
2.  Pyelonephritis.
3.  Bacteremia.
4.  Nodularis prurigo.
5.  Pneumonia.
6.  Diabetic ketoacidosis.

Of note, transferred to [**Company 191**] on [**2201-1-12**].






                     DR.[**First Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) 734**] 12-944

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1)