Admission Date:  [**2116-11-3**]     Discharge Date:  [**2116-11-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2069-12-31**]     Sex:  F

Service:  C-MEDICINE

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 46 year old
female with no past medical history, who was in her normal
state of health until three weeks prior to admission when the
patient developed nonproductive cough and a sore throat.  She
denies any fever, chills, night sweats or rashes.  In the
past two weeks prior to admission, the patient has developed
progressive dyspnea on exertion and lower extremity edema.
She had previously had normal exercise tolerance.  Now she
becomes dyspneic with less than one flight of stairs.  The
patient presented to the [**Hospital 191**] Clinic for workup.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She denies any fever, chills or nausea.
She complains of nonproductive cough.  No rhinitis.  Dyspnea
on exertion as above plus paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  She
utilizes one pillow at night on left side.  She denies any
chest pain, palpitations, syncope, no headaches, paresthesias
or unilateral weakness.  She has no decreased sensitivity to
heat or cold.  She denies any dysuria, urinary frequency or
urgency.  She denies abdominal pain.  There is no change in
bowel habits.  She has noted increase in abdominal distention
over the past two weeks.  At the [**Hospital 191**] Clinic, her heart rate
was found to be in the 150s, respiratory rate 30s, systolic
blood pressure 112.  She was sent to the Emergency
Department.

In the Emergency Department, she was found to be afebrile,
her pulse was 157, blood pressure 134/94, oxygen saturation
96% in room air.  Electrocardiogram showed that she was in
atrial fibrillation with no ST changes.  Chest x-ray revealed
bilateral pleural effusions, increased cephalization
consistent with congestive heart failure.

On physical examination, she had increased jugular venous
distention, 4+ pitting edema of the lower extremities and
crackles bilaterally on lung examination.

The patient was given Diltiazem 25 mg intravenously and
started on a Diltiazem drip for rate control.  She was also
started on Heparin drip for anticoagulation and given Lasix
for diuresis.  She was then admitted to the C-Medicine
service for further evaluation.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs reveal blood pressure
140/63, heart rate 106, respiratory rate 30, oxygen
saturation 93% on four liters.  In general, she was awake and
alert, ill appearing young Asian woman who was dyspneic.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination - The pupils
are equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation.
Extraocular movements are intact.  Sclera was anicteric.  Her
oropharynx was clear.  The neck revealed that she had jugular
venous distention up to the angle of the jaw, no
lymphadenopathy, no thyromegaly.  Cardiovascular - her rate
was irregularly irregular, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Lung
examination revealed crackles at the right lung one half up
from the bases.  She had decreased breath sounds over the
left lung fields.  Extremities - She had 3 to 4+ pitting
edema of the lower extremities up to her hips and 1+ edema of
her hands bilaterally.  Neurologically, her cranial nerves II
through XII are grossly intact.  Her muscle strength was [**5-9**]
in the upper extremities and lower extremities bilaterally.
Speech was normal.  Sensation was grossly normal.  The
abdomen was distended.  She had no fluid wave.  Her liver
edge was palpable three fingersbreadth below the costal
margin.  She had no tenderness on palpation.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count was 8.8, hematocrit 37.0,
platelets 285,000.  Sodium 136, potassium 4.0, chloride 102,
bicarbonate 20, blood urea nitrogen 15, creatinine 0.5.
Glucose 87.  ALT 34, AST 62, total bilirubin 3.9, alkaline
phosphatase 206, amylase 39, lipase 37.  CPK MB 2.0, troponin
less than 0.3.  Calcium 9.1, phosphorus 5.0, magnesium 1.7.
Iron studies were pending.  Hepatitis serology is pending.
[**Doctor First Name **] pending.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular - The patient was continued on Heparin
drip for anticoagulation and was continued on Diltiazem drip
for rate control.  She was ruled out for cardiac event by
serial cardiac enzymes.

An echocardiogram was obtained which revealed left atrium,
right atrium and inferior vena cava dilated (greater than 2.5
centimeters).  Her left ventricular wall thickness and cavity
size were normal.  Her overall left ventricular systolic
function was low with a left ventricular ejection fraction
estimated to be 50 to 55%.  Her right ventricular cavity was
dilated. Her right ventricular systolic function was found to
be mildly depressed.  There was abnormal diastolic septal
motion/position consistent with right ventricular
volume/pressure overload.  There was moderate 2+ mitral
regurgitation and 3 to 4+ tricuspid regurgitation.  There was
also evidence of severe pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension.

The patient was then transferred to the CCU for a cardiac
catheterization which revealed that her coronary arteries
were free of hemodynamically significant stenosis.  Resting
hemodynamics revealed elevated right sided and left sided
filling pressures with right greater than left, moderate
pulmonary hypertension, low cardiac index with a high
systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance.  The mean artery
pressure was 34 mmHg with VUA of 45 mmHg, RVEDP 30 mmHg,
pulmonary artery pressure was 57/31 mmHg.  The mean pulmonary
capillary wedge pressure was 27 mmHg and LVEDP was 7 mmHg.
Her cardiac index was calculated to be 1.8 liters per minute
per meter squared with a PVR of 88 di-seconds over
centimeters raised to the fifth.  Her oxygen saturation
testing did not show any evidence of significant intracardiac
left to right shunting.  In summary, the catheterization
results revealed that her coronary arteries were free of
stenoses.  She had moderate pulmonary arterial hypertension.
She had severe right and moderate left ventricular diastolic
dysfunction with suggestion of constrictive physiology.

She was aggressively diuresed in the CCU and started on low
dose ace inhibitor.  Her Diltiazem drip was able to be weaned
to off and the patient was started on p.o. Lopressor.  She
was then transferred from the CCU back to the C-Medicine
service.

Of note, her viral panel was positive for CMV IgG, but
negative for CMV IgM.  Her adenovirus antibody was 8 which is
borderline high.

2.  Respiratory - Her chest x-ray revealed freely layering
and moderate size of bilateral pleural effusions.  Right
thoracentesis was performed with removal of one liter of
serosanguinous fluid which had analysis consistent with that
of a transudate.  A gram stain and culture were negative for
microorganisms.  Lower extremity Doppler revealed no evidence
of deep vein thrombosis.  CTA revealed no evidence of acute
pulmonary embolus.  After days of aggressive diuresis, her
oxygen saturations were 97%. The patient left against medical
advice.

3.  Gastrointestinal - Because of her transaminitis,
abdominal ultrasound was performed which revealed ascites and
pulsatile flow within the portal vein and hepatic veins
consistent with cardiac cirrhosis.  Her hepatitis serologies
were negative.  Her iron studies and ceruloplasmin were all
within normal limits.

4.  Endocrine - She was discovered to be hyperthyroid with a
TSH of less than 0.05 and free T4 of greater than 3.0.  Her
thyroid peroxidase antibody was greater than 70 which is
extremely high.  She was started on PTU with the diagnosis of
Graves' disease.  She is to follow-up with endocrine with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 27318**] and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 10166**] of Endocrine as an outpatient on
[**2116-11-18**].

On the day that she was transferred from the CCU to the
C-Medicine service, the patient decided to leave against
medical advice.  She was explained that she was at risk for
complications including cardiac arrest and she fully
understood such a risk at this time.  We explained that we as
physicians have a duty to protect herself from harming
herself and she agreed that she would take fully
responsibility for her health and medical follow-up.  She was
given the op