Admission Date:  [**2188-7-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2188-7-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2120-9-15**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CA/TH [**Doctor First Name 147**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 67 -year-old
female with a history of breast cancer diagnosed in 07/96.
She is status post lobectomy and chemotherapy.  The patient
has complained of increasing left upper quadrant pain which
has radiated to the back.  Chest x-ray was negative.  CT scan
showed a left lower lobe mass in the chest.  The patient
denies shortness of breath, cough, hemoptysis, weight loss,
or anorexia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Depression.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Cholecystectomy.

ADMITTING MEDICATIONS:  Includes 1) Zoloft 100 mg q day, 2)
Toprol 50 mg q day, 3) Zantac 150 mg q day, and 4) Tamoxifen
one tablet [**Hospital1 **].

ALLERGIES:  No known allergies, but skin irritation to
adhesive tape.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Negative for tobacco or alcohol.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Sister with breast cancer and no family
history of lung cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Initial physical examination showed
the patient to be healthy with no acute distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat was negative to lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular was regular rate and rhythm.  Lungs were
decreased breath sounds in the left base.  Abdomen was soft,
nontender.  Extremities: negative edema.  Neurologic was
grossly intact.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted on [**7-25**] and
was transported to the Operating Room with a preoperative
diagnosis of left lower lobe nodule / pleural nodule.
Procedure was a left VATS, pleurodesis, and pleural biopsy
times one.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was
transported to the postoperative area in stable condition.

On postoperative day one, the patient was doing well and had
O2 saturations in the 90s on two liters.  On postoperative
day two, the patient complained of increasing shortness of
breath and was noted to have difficulty while ambulating.  On
postoperative day three the patient was assessed by Pain
Management who concluded that we should discontinue the
Percocet and start Dilaudid 2.0 mg po q three to four hours
for better control of the pain.

On [**2188-7-29**], the patient continued to have increasing
shortness of breath and O2 saturations on room air in the low
80s.  On [**2188-7-29**], the patient had a bronchoscopy which
showed high grade subglottic stepping secondary to swelling.
At this point the patient was transported to the Intensive
Care Unit for closer management.  The patient spent one day
in the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit and was transferred
back to the floor on [**2188-7-30**].

On [**2188-7-31**], the patient continued to do well, was tolerating
ambulation at a level IV without O2 and on room air had a
sitting saturation of 92%.  The patient's x-ray on [**7-31**]
was normal.  During the afternoon, the patient was reassessed
and scheduled for discharge.

DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Maximum temperature 98 F,
heart rate 95, respiratory rate 22, blood pressure 147/82,
the patient was 93% on five liters and the patient later in
the day was 92% on room air.  Cardiovascular was regular rate
and rhythm.  Respiratory was clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended,
positive bowel sounds.  The incision was clear, dry, and
intact.  The dressing was also clear and dry.

COMPLICATIONS:  None.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Included Zantac 150 mg po bid, Zoloft
100 mg po q day, Toprol XL 500 mg po q day, Tamoxifen one
tablet po bid, Levaquin 500 mg po q day times seven, Dilaudid
2.0 mg po q three to four hours prn, Albuterol nebulizers q
four hours prn, Colace 100 mg po bid with Dilaudid,
prednisone taper 40 mg po q day times two days, then 30 mg po
q day times two days, then 20 mg po q day times two days,
then 10 mg po q day times two days, then off.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good / stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

FOLLOW-UP:  The patient's follow-up will be with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 175**]
in one week.

PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS:
Left VATS with pleural biopsy.

SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Depression.



                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 177**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 178**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 179**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 33068**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2188-7-31**]  18:27
T:  [**2188-7-31**]  23:03
JOB#:  [**Job Number 34943**]
