Admission Date:  [**2153-3-13**]       Discharge Date:  [**2153-3-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2093-6-28**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 59 year old man
with a history of fatigue and sluggishness for the past three
years.  The patient's symptoms worsened and he began having
chest pressure and worsening shortness of breath over the
past two months for which the patient underwent a stress
test.  The patient underwent a cardiac catheterization and
was referred to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] for an aortic valve replacement.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, hypercholesterolemia,
asthma and gastroesophageal reflux disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Cholecystectomy in [**2151**].

MEDICATIONS:  Vitamin B 12 250 mg p.o. q.d.; Centrum; Vitamin
E 400 unit p.o. q.d.; Vitamin B6 400 mg p.o. q.d.; Vitamin C
1000 mg p.o. q.d.; Combivent 2 puffs inhaler q.i.d.; Serevent
2 puffs inhaled b.i.d.; Flovent 4 puffs t.i.d.; Folic acid 4
mg p.o. q.d., Singulair 10 mg p.o. q.d.; Celexa 20 mg ??????
tablet p.o. q.d.; Norvasc 5 mg p.o. q.d.; Lipitor 40 mg p.o.
q.h.s.; Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.; Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.;
Pletal 100 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  Tetanus shot

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination he is a white
male in no acute distress who appears his stated age,
however, he is shortness of breath and appears slightly
anxious.  Skin:  Mild petechiae in the right wrist,
nonpruritic, well hydrated.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat, pupils equal, round, and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements intact.  Normal buccal mucosa.  Neck
supple, no jugulovenous distension, no lymphadenopathy and no
bruits.  Clear chest.  No wheezing, no rhonchi.  Abdomen,
obese, nontender, hypoactive bowel sounds.  Heart, regular
rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2, III/VI murmur radiating to
the carotids heard best in the right sternal border.
Extremities, warm, no edema, no cyanosis.  Mild calf
tenderness bilaterally.  Pulses, femoral 2+ bilaterally,
dorsalis pedis 1+ on the right 2+ on the left, posterior
tibial right 1+, left 1+, radials 2+ bilaterally.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the hospital on
[**2153-3-13**] and underwent a minimally invasive aortic
valve replacement with a #23 [**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Known firstname **] valve.  The
patient did well postoperatively and was transferred to the
unit from the Post Anesthesia Care Unit.  The patient did
well on postoperative day #1 and was transferred to the
floor.  On postoperative day #2, the patient's Foley catheter
was removed, the patient's chest tube was also removed on
postoperative day #2.  Physical therapy saw the patient on
postoperative day #2 and thought that he was a Level 5 with
stairs.  On postoperative day #3 the patient's wires were
removed and he was seen again by physical therapy who thought
that he was fine for discharge home on postoperative day #4.
On postoperative day #4 the patient continued to do well and
was discharged to home on the following medications.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  All of his home medications as
previously stated, in addition Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
and Percocet 5/325 one to two tablets p.o. 4 to 6 hours prn
as well as Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Status post aortic valve replacement
with [**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Known firstname **] #23 valve.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 1112**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3113**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6067**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2153-3-16**]  18:53
T:  [**2153-3-16**]  20:02
JOB#:  [**Job Number 34478**]
