Admission Date:  [**2168-2-18**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2102-6-3**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65-year-old
male with a history of dilated cardiomyopathy of unclear
etiology with an ejection fraction of 20%, persistent atrial
fibrillation, who was going to a regular routine scheduled
visit at his cardiologist, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], when he began feeling
dizzy.  An electrocardiogram obtained in the office revealed
a wide complex tachycardia that was originally thought to be
supraventricular tachycardia with aberrancy.  The patient was
hemodynamically stable and was transferred by Emergency
Medical Service to the Emergency Department.

In the ambulance, the patient received adenosine for concern
of supraventricular tachycardia with aberrancy without any
affect.

On arrival in the Emergency Department, the patient had a
heart rate in the 190s, a blood pressure of 94/palp, and the
patient was mentating but feeling dizzy.  The patient was
loaded with intravenous amiodarone 150 mg intravenously.  A
DC cardioversion of 50 joules was performed which resulted in
ventricular fibrillation.  At this point, the patient was
emergently intubated and underwent cardiopulmonary
resuscitation for approximately 11 minutes.  The patient was
subsequently shocked four times without response, and then
spontaneously converted to normal sinus rhythm.

Status post spontaneous conversion, the patient became
hypotensive requiring dopamine and Neo-Synephrine at a very
low dose for less than one hour.  On these pressor
medications, the patient's blood pressure responded to
approximately 140s/80s.  Upon arrival to the Coronary Care
Unit, the patient spontaneously converted back to atrial
fibrillation and was quickly weaned off pressors, maintaining
a blood pressure in the 100s/60s without any pressor support.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Dilated cardiomyopathy of unclear etiology; question of
rate-related etiology.
2.  Catheterization in [**2167-8-29**] demonstrating normal
coronaries, global left ventricular dysfunction, ejection
fraction of 20%, cardiac output of 3.4, cardiac index of 1.6,
wedge of 27, right ventricular 44/17.
3.  Atrial fibrillation.
4.  Congestive heart failure times five years.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Hypercholesterolemia.
7.  Hiatal hernia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.,
Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d., Aldactone 25 mg p.o. q.d.,
Lasix 10 mg p.o. q.d., Coreg 18.75 mg p.o. b.i.d., Coumadin,
amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to PENICILLIN which
causes hives, and there was a questionable history of cough
secondary to ACE INHIBITOR.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies any alcohol use.  He has
approximately 40-pack-year tobacco history in the past.  The
patient quit tobacco 20 years ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature of 96.7,
heart rate of 119, blood pressure of 123/74 on 5 mcg of
dopamine, satting 96%.  In general, intubated, not
responsive, no spontaneous movement.  Head, eyes, ears, nose,
and throat revealed pupils were equally round and reactive to
light.  Mucous membranes were dry.  Cardiovascular revealed a
regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs.  Pulmonary was clear to
auscultation bilaterally and anteriorly.  Abdomen was soft
and nondistended.  Extremities revealed trace edema.
Neurologically, unresponsive to sternal rub, eyes with
psychotic movements, corneal reflex was absent, Babinski
bilaterally upgoing.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell
count of 7.3, hematocrit of 42.3, platelets of 262.  Sodium
of 137, potassium of 3.9, chloride of 96, bicarbonate of 28,
blood urea nitrogen of 58, creatinine of 1.7, glucose of 144.
PTT of 32, INR of 3.3.  Creatine kinase of 70.  Troponin was
pending.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray revealed clear lungs,
endotracheal tube at the clavicles.

Electrocardiogram revealed baseline atrial fibrillation with
a right bundle-branch block at 80 beats per minute.
Electrocardiogram #1 revealed ventricular tachycardia at 190
beats per minute, positive concordance in precordium.

Electrocardiogram #2 revealed coarse ventricular
fibrillation.

Electrocardiogram #3 revealed atrial fibrillation at 120
beats per minute, similar to baseline.

CT of the head was negative for intracranial bleed or acute
intracranial process.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 65-year-old male with a
history of dilated cardiomyopathy of unclear etiology who
presented with ventricular tachycardia, initially
hemodynamically stable, shocked with 50 joules into
ventricular fibrillation with cardiopulmonary resuscitation
for approximately 11 minutes, and spontaneous conversion to
sinus rhythm with a concerning resultant neurologic status
who was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit for hemodynamic
monitoring and management.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  (a)  Ischemia:  The patient had a
cardiac catheterization in [**2167-8-29**] which
demonstrated clean coronaries.

(b)  Pump:  The patient has a known history of dilated
cardiomyopathy of unclear etiology with an ejection fraction
of 20%.  The patient initially received fluid boluses to
maintain blood pressure in the Emergency Department and
underwent subsequent diuresis on admission to the Coronary
Care Unit.

The patient's daily dose of Aldactone and Lasix were held,
and the Lasix was provided p.r.n. in an effort to maintain
the patient's fluid status at an even level.  Once the
patient's blood pressure was able to tolerate it, an
angiotensin receptor blocker was started at low doses and
titrated up as tolerated.  The patient did demonstrate very
mild congestive heart failure based on examination and serial
chest x-rays which responded well to small doses of Lasix. In
addition, the patient was started back on Coreg at a low dose
which was titrated up as tolerated.  The patient had no
further issues with his cardiac pump function.

(c)  Rate and rhythm:  Upon admission to the Emergency
Department, the patient was hemodynamically stable in atrial
fibrillation with a controlled rate in the 80s.  An
Electrophysiology consultation was obtained so that the
patient could be considered for an electrophysiology study,
ventricular tachycardia ablation, and automatic internal
cardioverter-defibrillator placement should his neurologic
status improve.

Upon admission to the Coronary Care Unit, the patient was
started on an amiodarone drip at 1 mg per minute which was
decreased on hospital day two to 0.5 mg per minute.

On the first hospital night, the patient had a single episode
of ventricular tachycardia with a stable pulse and a blood
pressure which lasted approximately 45 seconds and resulted
in spontaneous conversion to atrial fibrillation.  Over the
next few days, the patient continued to have occasional runs
of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia which were always
associated with stable hemodynamics and short durations of
spontaneous conversion to atrial fibrillation.

However, on [**2-21**], the patient had an episode of
ventricular tachycardia which lasted approximately nine
minutes and did not terminate until the patient was bolused
with an intravenous load of amiodarone.  During the first few
hospital days, the patient had occasional bouts of
tachycardia associated with atrial fibrillation which were
well controlled with small doses of intravenous Lopressor.

An electrophysiology study was performed on [**2-22**]; at
which time three distinct ventricular tachycardias were
induced and successfully ablated.  The patient was continued
on amiodarone and beta blocker as tolerated, and further
consideration was given to automatic internal
cardioverter-defibrillator placement pending the patient's
neurologic recovery.

The patient had no further episodes of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia or other arrhythmias during the
remainder of the hospital stay leading up to the time of this
dictation.  The patient will likely be considered for
placement of automatic internal cardioverter-defibrillator
once his neurologic status has declared itself and once the
patient has cleared his infections and remains afebrile off
antibiotic therapy.

2.  PULMONARY