Admission Date:  [**2121-2-5**]     Discharge Date:  [**2121-2-9**]


Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 78 year old
white male with history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
status post right lobectomy 14 years ago, who presents to the
Emergency Room with complaints of shortness of breath for the
past several days.  The patient reports that he is short of
breath while walking to the bathroom from his bed at night.
He also has had mild diaphoresis.  He denies any chest pain,
nausea, vomiting, fevers, cough, orthopnea or paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea.  He denies any palpitations.  The
shortness of breath is worsened with minimal activity over
the past two days.  The patient was taken to the Emergency
Room by ambulance service.  In the ambulance, the patient was
found to be in atrial flutter with heart rate 150s, blood
pressure 140/70.  He was treated with Diltiazem with
improvement in heart rate to 120s.

Chest x-ray with mild congestive heart failure.  He was given
20 mg of intravenous Lasix.  He was weaned from 100%
non-rebreather to nasal cannula with good oxygen saturation.
Past history of atrial fibrillation unknown.  The patient
reports that he has had an irregular heart beat for years.
No known prior work-up.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diabetes mellitus.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Lung cancer status post resection of the right lobe.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1.  Glyburide 15 mg p.o. q. day.
2.  Adalat 30 mg p.o. q. day.
3.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day.
4.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q. day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is retired.  He lives with his daughter.
His wife died of cancer recently.  He denies any tobacco use.
Has occasional alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On arrival in the Emergency Room,
heart rate 150 and regular; blood pressure 145/75;
respiratory rate 26; 98% on 100% non-rebreather.  In general,
elderly white male in mild distress.  HEENT:  Pupils equal
and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements are intact.
Neck:  No jugular venous distention.  Lungs:  Decreased
breath sounds in the right lung field with occasional
crackles in the left base.  No wheezes.  Cardiac:
Irregularly irregular with S1, S2 normal.  Abdomen soft,
nontender, nondistended, with positive bowel sounds.
Extremities:  Trace pitting edema bilaterally.  Back:
Positive surgical scar over right upper back.  No
costovertebral angle tenderness.  Neurologic:  Alert and
oriented times three.  Rectal:  Guaiac negative stool.  Good
rectal tone.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 17.4, hematocrit 41.4,
platelets 83.  Sodium 136, potassium 4.3, chloride 95,
bicarbonate 26, BUN 16, creatinine 1.0, glucose 292, troponin
8.1.  Acetone large.  Total cholesterol 273.  Alkaline
phosphatase 155, CK 175, albumin 4.4, calcium 9.9, phosphate
4.4, magnesium 1.7.

Chest x-ray:  Near opacification of the right lung field.
Mild congestive heart failure.

IMPRESSION:  78 year old white male with a history of
hypertension and diabetes mellitus, who presents with
shortness of breath and found to be in atrial flutter with a
heart rate of 150.  He is now rate controlled with
intravenous Diltiazem but his first troponin was positive at
8.1.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1.  Cardiac:  Initially the patient was in atrial flutter and
he responded to the intravenous Diltiazem.  He was continued
on his Adalat 30 mg p.o. q. day and Metoprolol was added,
12.5 mg p.o. twice a day.  The patient was initially
heparinized both for his rhythm and because of an elevated
troponin.  Possible acute coronary syndrome.  For his
possible ischemia his CKs were cycled and he was continued on
his aspirin.  He was also started on a beta blocker and
continued on his Lipitor.  He was also started on heparin for
acute coronary syndrome.

Because of his poor respiratory status, the patient was
intubated.  On the first night of admission, he became
hypotensive and required to be started on Dopamine and
Norepinephrine.  He had a cardioversion on the second day of
admission.  He converted to sinus rhythm with cardioversion.
However, that evening, he then reconverted back to atrial
flutter.

He had an echocardiogram done the second day of admission
which showed left atrial moderate dilatation, severely
depressed left ventricular function, right ventricle dilated,
severe low rate ventricular free wall hypokinesis.  Mildly
dilated aortic root, one plus mitral regurgitation.
Increased diastolic PA pressure.  Small pericardial effusion
but no evidence of tamponade.  Ejection fraction was reported
to be 20%.

His CK went from 195 to 214 to 576, but this is status post
cardioversion.  His MB was 13.3, 11.7, and 12.2.  His
troponin increased from 8.1 to 21.1 in the setting of
cardioversion.

On the second day of admission, the patient was started on
Amiodarone load.  He was started on an Amiodarone drip of 0.5
mg per minute.  He was felt to be in congestive heart
failure.  His urine output had decreased and he was given
increasing amounts of Lasix.  He has received 10 mg
intravenous for which his urine output did improve.  His
oxygen saturation was improved.  He had another episode of
rapid ventricular rate in the 120s with decreased blood
pressure on the third day of admission.  He had a
cardioversion attempt again, but without success.  His
Amiodarone was continued.  His oxygen saturations were also
decreasing.

It was decided that he still required diuresis for his
congestive heart failure.  There was some discussion whether
the patient would need a Swan-Ganz catheter in the setting of
infection, however, he was still felt to be fluid overloaded
and he had continued goal of diuresis.  If the patient had
another rapid ventricular response, he would have been
further cardioverted, however, he did not have occasion for
that.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient's pulmonary status deteriorated
to the point where he needed intubation upon admission.  His
initial ventilator settings were assist control with total
volume of 400, PEEP of 10 and FIO2 of 70%.  He had a
respiratory rate of 24.  His first arterial blood gas was pH
of 7.34, pCO2 of 39, pO2 of 78.  Besides his right
pneumonectomy, he had congestive heart failure.
Consequently, he had a very compromised pulmonary status.
There was some concern that he may be developing a pneumonia.

His subsequent ventilator settings were adjusted to decrease
his FIO2.  His FIO2 decreased to 0.60 on the third day.  On
the fourth day, his ventilator settings still required FIO2
of 60%.  His arterial blood gas on that day was 7.43 pH, pCO2
of 37, pO2 of 61.

3.  Infectious Disease:  The patient did not have any
evidence of infection upon admission.  However, he did have a
temperature spike of 101.6 F., on the second day of
admission.  He was started on Levofloxacin and Metronidazole.
There was some concern that he may have a pneumonia.
However, on the fourth day of admission, the patient was
found to have two out of four blood culture bottles positive
for Gram positive cocci in pairs and clusters.  Consequently,
he was started on Vancomycin and the Levofloxacin and the
Flagyl were still continued.  He was additionally further
pan-cultured.

4.  Renal:  The patient's creatinine on admission was 1.0.
The second day of admission it was 0.5.  His urine output was
muddy and had many brown casts consistent with acute tubular
necrosis.  His rise in creatinine was consistent with this
also.  His acute renal failure was thought to be due to acute
tubular necrosis secondary to hypotension that now required
Dopamine and Norepinephrine.  However, because he was fluid
overloaded, he still required diuresis with Lasix.  His urine
output had decreased and he required increasing amounts of
Lasix.  He also had decreased oxygen saturation which was
thought to be due to, in part, the initial heart failure.
Creatinine then was stable at 1.4 to 1.5.

Further hospital course is as follows:  Because of the
patient's fever, it was decided that his right internal
jugular line needed to be switched, particularly because the
culture was growing Gram positive cocci, the possible source
was the line.  It was decided that he would have stick 