Admission Date:  [**2124-8-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2124-9-29**]


Service:  ACOVE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 83-year-old
male with a past medical history significant for noninsulin
dependent diabetes mellitus, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation
status post pacer, benign prostatic hypertrophy, and chronic
renal insufficiency, with a recent hip fracture status post
open reduction and internal fixation who, while on Coumadin
(INR equal to 3.5), developed an upper gastrointestinal
bleed.  The patient was admitted to an outside hospital on
[**8-14**] with complaint of epigastric pain, hematemesis, and
melena, with an initial hematocrit of 31.5.  The patient had
an upper endoscopy on [**8-14**], with evidence of clot and
bright red blood, however, the source of bleeding could not
be localized.  The patient went to the operating room on
[**8-15**], where he underwent a laparotomy, gastrotomy and
oversew of several gastric erosions.  A jejunostomy tube was
also placed at this time.

The patient was reportedly stable from [**8-14**] through
[**8-22**], without evidence of recurrent bleed.  On [**8-22**], the patient again had several bouts of melena with signs
of confusion and lethargy and an acute drop in his hematocrit
from 30 to 22.  A nasogastric lavage was positive for active
bleeding, and the patient was transfused two units of packed
red blood cells.  He remained hemodynamically stable, and
again underwent an upper endoscopy which demonstrated diffuse
gastritis.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] at this time as a result of deteriorating condition
and intractable bleeding.

Prior to admission, the patient had also received a seven day
course of vancomycin and Tequin for a "polymicrobial
bacteremia," with unclear source.  Subsequent blood cultures
were reportedly negative.

On arrival, the patient was found hemodynamically stable and
asymptomatic, without evidence of active bleeding.  He denied
abdominal pain, chest pain, as well as
lightheadedness/dizziness.  The patient was admitted to the
Intensive Care Unit for close monitoring.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation status post pacemaker placement, chronic renal
insufficiency, lacunar strokes, cholecystectomy, Type 2
diabetes mellitus, left hip fracture with open reduction and
internal fixation on [**2124-7-11**], benign prostatic
hypertrophy status post transurethral resection of prostate.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Protonix 40 mg intravenously every
12 hours, levofloxacin 250 mg by mouth once daily, Flagyl 500
mg by mouth every eight hours, metoprolol 25 mg by mouth
twice a day, Hydralazine 25 mg intravenously every six hours,
timolol 0.25% one drop to each eye twice a day, Haldol 0.5 mg
intravenously every six hours as needed, Ativan 0.5 to 1 mg
intravenously every four hours as needed, Oxycodone 5 mg by
mouth every four hours as needed.

ALLERGIES:  Include penicillin and aspirin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in [**Hospital1 14211**] with his wife
of 55 years, has two sons.  [**Name (NI) **] has a 30 to 45 pack year
tobacco history, quit in [**2082**], with occasional alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, temperature 98.5, heart
rate 70, respiratory rate 25, blood pressure 116/47, oxygen
saturation 96% on room air.  In general, the patient is a
pleasant, thin, elderly male, who is alert but not oriented
to place or date, in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat examination:  Normocephalic, atraumatic,
pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation,
extraocular movements intact bilaterally, oropharynx clear,
edentulous.  Neck:  Supple, full range of motion, with a
right internal jugular venous catheter in place.  No
lymphadenopathy, no jugular venous distention noted.
Pulmonary examination notable for decreased breath sounds at
the left base, otherwise clear to auscultation bilaterally,
no wheezes, rales or rhonchi.  Cardiovascular examination:
Irregularly irregular heart rate with normal S1, S2, and a
II/VI systolic ejection murmur at the left lower sternal
border, no rubs or gallops noted.  Abdominal examination:
soft, nontender, decreased bowel sounds throughout, with a
jejunostomy tube in place and a recent vertical scar from the
epigastric region to the peripubic region, clean, dry and
intact.  Extremities:  Trace ankle edema, 2+ pulses, and warm
and well perfused.  Neurologic examination notable for alert,
awake and oriented to name only, [**5-14**] motor strength,
sensation grossly intact, gait deferred.

LABORATORIES AND STUDIES:  On admission, CBC with a white
blood cell count of 10.2, hemoglobin 8.7, hematocrit 26,
platelets 257. Panel 7 was sodium of 141, potassium 4.3,
chloride 107, bicarbonate 24, BUN 68, creatinine 1.5, glucose
146.  PT 12.8, with an INR of 1.1, PTT 30.  Liver function
tests with an ALT of 21, AST 19, alkaline phosphatase 96,
total bilirubin 0.5.  Albumin 2.2, calcium 7.8, corrected
calcium 9.2, magnesium 1.8, phosphate 4.1.  Electrocardiogram
notable for atrial fibrillation at a rate of 67, with normal
intervals, normal axis, unchanged from [**2124-8-3**].

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was followed by the
Gastroenterology team and initially underwent a bleeding
scan, without evidence of bleeding from either the celiac or
splenic artery.  He then underwent an upper endoscopy on
[**8-24**], with evidence of active bleeding, again without a
bleeding lesion identified.  The patient subsequently
underwent urgent angiography on [**8-25**].  There was no
evidence of bleeding source identified during this procedure,
and he underwent a prophylactic embolization of the left
gastric artery.  However, the patient continued to have drops
in hematocrit requiring three additional units of packed red
blood cells.  He remained hemodynamically stable and, on
[**8-27**], with no further episodes of melena or hematemesis,
the patient was transferred out of the Intensive Care Unit.

Again on [**8-30**], the hematocrit dropped, and upper
endoscopy was completed, revealing gastric erosions and
friability, with contact bleeding in the posterior stomach
and hypertrophied Brunner's glands in the duodenum.  Again a
hematocrit drop was noted on [**8-31**], and the patient
continued with intermittent episodes of large melena,
requiring transfusion.  A repeat upper endoscopy on [**9-6**]
demonstrated a visible vessel with recent clot in the fundus
(likely Dieulafoy lesion).  The vessel was cauterized, and no
further episodes of melena were noted from [**9-6**] to
[**9-11**], with a stable hematocrit.

On [**9-7**], the patient was noted to have mildly elevated
pancreatic enzymes, with an amylase to 124 and lipase to 95.
This abnormality resolved spontaneously on [**9-8**], with
normalization of the pancreatic enzymes.

On [**9-12**], the patient again was noted to have a
hematocrit drop, requiring one more unit of packed red blood
cells.  Upper endoscopy was again repeated on [**9-13**] to
rule out active bleeding.  A visible vessel was again
visualized in the fundus of the stomach, again with fresh
clot.  At this time, the lesion was cauterized, injected with
epinephrine, and clipped with four endoclips.  Since this
intervention, the patient has had transient fluctuations in
hematocrit, but no further evidence of active bleeding.  He
has received one unit of packed red blood cells since [**9-8**], and the hematocrit has remained stable between 31 and 34.

On [**9-23**], the patient was noted to have a recurrent
episode of melena, and was transferred to the Intensive Care
Unit for overnight monitoring.  On repeat upper endoscopy,
the endoclips were found intact, without evidence of active
bleeding.  The hematocrit remained unchanged, without
transfusion required.  The melena episode was felt to be
secondary to retained stool, and the patient was returned to
the floor.

At this time, the patient was again noted to have mildly
increased pancreatic enzymes.  Right upper quadrant
ultrasound demonstrated cholelithiasis without evidence of
sludge, common bile duct stones, signs of inflammation or
p