Admission Date:  [**2110-9-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2110-9-23**]


Service:  Medicine, [**Location (un) **] Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known firstname **] [**Known lastname 98538**] is an
84-year-old gentleman with a history of hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 40%, sinus node
dysfunction (status post pacemaker placement), left upper
extremity deep venous thrombosis, paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation, and known abdominal aortic aneurysm who
presented to the Emergency Department with a 1-day history of
shortness of breath and decreased mental acuity.

The patient says that he developed a sudden spasm of
shortness of breath on the morning prior to admission which
had been progressively worsening over the past 24 hours.  He
denied pleuritic pain, fevers, coughing, chest pain,
palpitations, or lightheadedness.  He does not report
orthopnea since these symptoms began.  The patient also
reports a low-grade back pain which began yesterday after
leaning over.

Review of systems was otherwise positive for blood in his
stools with straining and occasional lightheadedness and
dizziness.  It is also positive for abdominal pain and
dysuria.

EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE:  In the Emergency Department,
the patient initially stable with vital signs of a
temperature of 98 degrees Fahrenheit, heart rate was 90,
blood pressure was 134/76, respiratory rate was 18, and
oxygen saturation was 95% on room air.  A computed tomography
angiogram of the pelvis was obtained which showed interval
enlargement of his abdominal aortic aneurysm from 5.5 cm in
[**2109-7-22**] to 7.2 cm.  Vascular Surgery was consulted, and
the patient was offered surgery; however, the patient
declined and tried to leave the hospital against medical
advice.  The patient understood the risks and benefits of
surgery and said that he did not want elective surgery at
this time.

The Emergency Department course was also significant for
progressive hypoxia.  The patient's oxygen saturation
decreased from 95% on room air to 89% on room air, and he was
started on 100% nonrebreather.  He also received Levaquin 500
mg times one and ceftriaxone 1 g times one for possible
community-acquired pneumonia.

He had a transthoracic echocardiogram performed which showed
a new mild pulmonary artery hypertension and a stable
ejection fraction of 40%.

In the Emergency Department, he also had a computed
tomography angiogram of his chest to evaluate for pulmonary
embolism, and there was no pulmonary embolism found.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
 2.  Sinus node dysfunction; status post dual-chamber
pacemaker placement in [**2108-8-22**].
 3.  Hypertension.
 4.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm; which has recently grown from
5.5 cm in [**2109-7-22**] to 7.2 cm on the day of admission on
[**2110-9-17**].  The patient had previously declined
elective surgery and currently declining elective surgery for
his abdominal aortic aneurysm.
 5.  Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of
40%.
 6.  History of a left upper extremity deep venous thrombosis
in the left subclavian vein.
 7.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 8.  Degenerative joint disease.
 9.  Status post left hip arthroplasty.
10.  Left ventricular hypertrophy.
11.  Mild aortic regurgitation.
12.  Moderate mitral regurgitation.
13.  Status post hemorrhoidectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Atenolol 25 mg by mouth twice per day
2.  Amiodarone 200 mg by mouth once per day.
3.  Multivitamin one tablet by mouth once per day.
4.  Ginkgo biloba.
5.  Lutein.
6.  Bilberry.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife and performs
all of her activities of daily living.  He smoked one to two
packs per day times 15 years but quit in [**2067**].  He denies
alcohol use and denies intravenous drug use.  The patient
states that he is a full-time care taker for his wife, who he
says needs constant care but did not want to elaborate as to
why his wife needed constant care.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed his temperature was 98 degrees
Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 90, his blood pressure was
134/76, his respiratory rate was 18, and his oxygen
saturation was 95% on room air (which decreased to 80% on
room air and then improved to 95% on 100% nonrebreather.  In
general, the patient was an elderly male who spoke in
complete sentences.  He was alert and oriented times three.
Positive for rigors.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed pupils were equal, round, and reactive
to light.  His mucous membranes were dry.  He had no cervical
adenopathy.  No jugular venous distention.  His neck was
supple.  On lung examination, he had transmitted upper airway
sounds.  No wheezes, rhonchi, or rales.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs,
rubs, or gallops.  Abdominal examination revealed the abdomen
was soft, nontender, and nondistended with good bowel sounds.
He had a pulsating mass as well as a palpable aorta.
Extremity examination revealed no lower extremity edema.
Pedal pulses were palpable bilaterally.  Skin examination was
benign.  Neurologic examination revealed no gross deficits.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed he had a white blood cell count of 15
(with a neutrophil predominance at 82%), his hematocrit was
41.5, and his platelets were down to 99 from his usual
baseline of 190 to 210.  His Chemistry-7 revealed his sodium
was 139, potassium was 3.9, chloride was 99, bicarbonate was
26, blood urea nitrogen was 44, creatinine was 1.6 (which was
elevated from his baseline of 1.3), and his blood glucose was
134.  His INR was 1.4 and his partial thromboplastin time was
27.8.  Urinalysis showed moderate blood.  No nitrites, no
protein, no glucose, no ketones, and no leukocyte esterase.
Hs creatine kinase was slightly elevated at 199.  His CK/MB
was 6.  His troponin T was 0.04.  An arterial blood gas was
performed which showed a pH of 7.54, PCO2 was 30, and PO2 was
56.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram showed that
he was ventricularly paced at a rate of 83 beats per minute.
He had a T wave inversion in leads V4 through V6 which were
new compared to a previous electrocardiogram.  He also had a
1-mm ST depression in leads V4 through V6.

A chest x-ray showed questionable congestive heart failure
versus lower lung volumes.

A computed tomography angiogram of the pelvis showed an
increase in the size of his abdominal aortic aneurysm from
5.8 cm X 5.3 cm to 7.2 cm X 7.1 cm.  This was in comparison
to a computed tomography angiogram of the pelvis he had
performed in [**2109-7-22**].  There was no definitive evidence
of contrast extravasation or change in the extensive
intraluminal hematoma of his abdominal aortic aneurysm.  His
anterior mesenteric artery was encased by the hematoma.  He
also had bilateral accessory renal arteries and bilateral
simple renal cysts.  His left internal iliac artery showed an
aneurysm which was 2.5 cm X 3.2 cm which was unchanged from
previous computed tomography angiogram.

A computed tomography angiogram of the chest showed mild
central lobular emphysema with upper lobe predominance.  He
had numerous lower lobe nodules with lower lobe predominance.
He had air space consolidations with small pleural effusions;
consistent with pneumonia.  He had an unchanged right thyroid
nodule, and there was no evidence for pulmonary embolism.

The echocardiogram performed showed mildly dilated left
atrium.  No left ventricular hypertrophy.  Mild regional left
ventricular systolic dysfunction with focal hypokinesis of
the distal anterior and apical walls.  His aortic root and
ascending and descending aorta were moderately dilated.  He
had mild 1+ aortic regurgitation, moderate 2+ mitral
regurgitation, and mild pulmonary artery hypertension (which
was new).  He had no effusions and no vegetations on his
valves.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

 1.  HYPERTROPHIC CARDIOMYOPATHY ISSUES:  An echocardiogram
was performed on [**9-17**] which showed an ejection fraction
stable at 4