Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 111318**]
Admission Date: [**2132-7-17**]
Discharge Date: [**2132-7-22**]
Date of Birth:  [**2061-5-11**]
Sex:  M
Service:  MED


Continuation of previous report:

Pneumonia:  Upon admission patient's chest x-ray showed a
left upper lobe consolidation.  Upon hydration his
radiographic findings worsened.  Initially the patient's
pneumonia was treated with Flagyl, levofloxacin and
vancomycin.  However, when an endotracheal sample grew out
Strep pneumoniae his antibiotic regimen was switched to
ceftriaxone.  The following day the sensitivities for this
organism were complete and it was found that the Strep
pneumoniae was sensitive to penicillin.  At this time the
patient's antibiotic regimen was again switched to penicillin
alone and the antibiotics were discontinued.  A CT scan of
the patient's chest was obtained.  This showed a left upper
and left lower lobe consolidation with patchy infiltrates
consistent with pneumoniae, bilateral pleural effusions, left
greater than right, cirrhosis and findings consistent with
portal hypertension.  With the severity of the patient's
pneumonia, ceftriaxone was again added to the patient's
antibiotic regimen to ensure broader coverage.  Initially the
patient required 18 PEEP to maintain good oxygenation.  At
the time of this dictation his PEEP was weaned down to 14-16
and his FiO2 down to 50 percent.  On these settings he was
satting 100 percent.

Acute renal failure:  The patient on presentation had acute
renal failure with a creatinine of 3.8.  His renal failure
was felt to be secondary to his long-standing diabetes and
hypertension in the setting of NSAID use, decreased p.o.
intake, dehydration and persistent hydrochlorothiazide and
ACE inhibitor use and low blood pressure in the setting of
pneumonia/sepsis.  It was believed that the patient was in
ATN.  He was initially started on a bicarb drip which was
discontinued in the Medical Intensive Care Unit as the
patient's bicarb on his Chem-7 was greater than 20.
Initially the patient became oliguric making only
approximately 5 cc/hour of urine.  However, at the time of
this dictation the patient was entering a polyuric phase of
ATN with increased urine output.  In addition, his creatinine
began to improve closer to baseline and was 2.1 at the time
of this dictation.

Acidosis:  The patient had a combination of respiratory and
metabolic acidosis at presentation to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit.  His metabolic acidosis was likely secondary to
sepsis as evidenced by his elevated lactate greater than 10.
The patient's respiratory acidosis was secondary to
hypoventilation in the setting of mild chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease given his significant tobacco history.
Lastly, the patient received multiple liters of normal saline
infusion and does likely have a non anion gap acidosis from
this.  His last tape was closely monitored and this resolved
quickly.  The patient was also hyperventilated on the vent
which also helped improve his acidosis.  At the time of this
dictation his acidosis had completely resolved, his anion gap
had closed and his lactate levels were normal.

Hypotension:  The patient was hypotensive upon admission to
the Emergency Room.  He was started on vasopressin, Neo-
Synephrine and dopamine.  Upon arrival to the floor he was
switched to Levophed, dopamine and vasopressin.  His maps
were kept greater than 60.  He had a central line placed for
CVP measurement.  He was weaned off of dopamine and continued
on Levophed and vasopressin.  Because the patient had
persistent bradycardia, these two medications were stopped
and he was started on dopamine at the time of this dictation.
The patient's requirement for pressors was also significantly
reduced at the time of this dictation.

Thrombocytopenia:  The patient had a diagnosis of
pseudothrombocytopenia at the time of dictation.  His blood
was sent in a special tube for platelet analysis.  This
revealed that he did, indeed, have thrombocytopenia with a
platelet count of 33,000.  The thrombocytopenia was thought
to be secondary to hypersplenism as evidenced on his CT scan.
In addition, some element of bone marrow suppression was
thought to be contributing to his thrombocytopenia.

Atrial fibrillation:  At presentation to the Emergency Room
the patient was in rapid atrial fibrillation with a rapid
ventricular response.  This was felt to be secondary to
increased cardiac output demand in the setting of infection.
The patient was cardioverted in the Emergency Room and
remained in normal sinus rhythm throughout his hospital
course.  He was not anticoagulated given his increased
bleeding risk secondary to likely esophageal varices.  In
addition, this was his first episode of atrial fibrillation
and it was felt that the factors contributing to this event
were resolving.  Specifically, the patient's septic
physiology was improving.

Coagulopathy:  The patient had an elevated INR at the time of
presentation.  This was thought to be secondary to his liver
disease.  A DIC panel was relatively unremarkable with FDP of
10-40 and a fibrinogen greater than 400.  His INR's were
monitored.  In the setting of broad spectrum antibiotic use,
his INR increased to 3.1.  At this time he received vitamin
K.

Thrombosis/hepatoma:  Upon presentation the patient was
evaluated for _____________.  Given his liver disease an
abdominal ultrasound was obtained.  This revealed moderate
degree of ascites.  Signs of portal hypertension with a
markedly enlarged spleen containing a small cyst.  Occluded
and expanded portal vein, right portal vein and anterior and
posterior right portal vein with thrombus extending down the
SMV.  An 8 cm thrombus within the SMV was noted.  The patient
was also found to have a distended gallbladder containing a
large stone but no definite evidence of acute cholecystitis.
Lastly, there was a very abnormal liver with focal areas of
mass light configuration particularly evident within the left
lobe lateral segment where there was a five times 5 cm
apparent mass.  With these radiographic findings,
anticoagulation was again considered.  The Liver team was
consulted who felt that this could represent a stable clot
from portal congestion.  The plan was made to get a repeat
abdominal ultrasound to see whether or not this clot had
extended after a few days.  If the clot appeared unstable or
larger, the plan was to inform the family of the bleeding
risk of starting anticoagulation and to anticoagulate the
patient.  As for his apparent liver mass, the [**Last Name (un) **] and AFP
tumor markers were sent.  These were just minimally elevated
above normal.  The long term plan was to obtain an MRI when
the patient was more stable to further evaluate this mass.

Bradycardia:  The patient had initially presented to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit with tachycardia.  However, over
the course of several days his heart rate persistently
slowed.  This was thought to be multifactorial.  Possible
etiologies included sedation, tachybrady syndrome given his
recent history of atrial fibrillation, slow heart rate
secondary to sepsis, some [**Last Name **] problem with his conduction
system such as endocarditis or abscess.  At the time of this
dictation the plan was to wean his sedation and to start the
patient back on dopamine as this may help his heart rate.

INCOMPLETE DICTATION



                        [**Doctor First Name **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] 12-981

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 2020**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2132-7-22**] 13:22:58
T:  [**2132-7-22**] 14:21:34
Job#:  [**Job Number 111320**]



