Admission Date:  [**2102-12-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2103-1-4**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

REASON FOR ADMISSION:  The patient was admitted for
ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84-year-old
gentleman with a history of hyperlipidemia, hypertension,
diabetes, with no known coronary artery disease who presented
to an outside hospital complaining of [**6-16**] left chest pain
that had started at 3 a.m. on the morning of admission.  No
associated radiation of the chest.  No nausea, vomiting,
shortness of breath, or diaphoresis.  The pain improved to
[**2-14**] status post sublingual nitroglycerin times two.
Electrocardiogram revealed 1-mm to 2-mm ST elevations in
leads I and aVL with inferior lateral depressions.

The patient was treated with a heparin drip, nitroglycerin
drip, aspirin, beta blocker, and Retavase.  A subsequent
catheterization revealed 3-vessel disease with no left main
disease and no total occlusion, status post Retavase. The
patient was now awaiting Cardiothoracic Surgery consultation
for evaluation for possible coronary artery bypass graft.

The patient is currently chest pain free on a nitroglycerin
drip at the time of evaluation.  The patient was sent to the
Coronary Care Unit for evaluation of a groin hematoma.  The
patient notes using a walker at baseline and notes
progressive dyspnea on exertion times one to two months.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Hyperlipidemia.
4.  Poor balance; status post back surgery times five years
ago.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Atenolol 25 mg by mouth once per day.
2.  Aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day.
3.  Diovan 160 mg by mouth once per day.
5.  Glyburide 2.5 mg by mouth once per day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies a history of tobacco.
Occasional alcohol use.  No drug abuse.  The patient lives
with his wife and son.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On evaluation, his
examination revealed a temperature of 95 degrees Fahrenheit
orally, his heart rate was in the 60s, his blood pressure was
110/50, his respiratory rate was 16, and his oxygen
saturation was 94% on 4 liters.  General examination revealed
he was an obese comfortable male and in no acute distress.
Jugular venous distention was difficult to assess secondary
to body habitus.  The lungs were clear.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs,
rubs, or gallops were appreciated.  Abdominal examination
revealed the abdomen was obese, soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  His extremities were significant for a
hematoma at the right femoral site which had already been
marked out.  No tenderness to palpation.  He had 1+ dorsalis
pedis pulses, and he had 1+ lower extremity pitting edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   His laboratory
data on admission revealed his white blood cell count was
12.1, his hematocrit was 40, and his platelets were 237.
Chemistry revealed his sodium was 134, potassium was 4.4,
chloride was 100, bicarbonate was 26, blood urea nitrogen was
20, creatinine was 1.1, and his blood glucose was 211.  His
creatine phosphokinase was 190, MB was 9.3, cardiac index was
5, and troponin at the outside hospital was 1.21.  His
coagulations revealed his prothrombin time was 16.3, his
partial thromboplastin time was 150, and his INR was 1.8.
His alanine-aminotransferase was 27, aspartate
aminotransferase was 140, alkaline phosphatase was 57, and
his total bilirubin was 0.5.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  His electrocardiogram at the
outside hospital showed a normal sinus rhythm at 90.  There
were 1-mm to 2-mm ST elevations in leads I and aVL with
inferolateral 1-mm to 2-mm ST depressions, showing serial
interval changes with T wave inversions in leads I and aVL
and decreased inferolateral depressions.  His right-sided
leads were negative.

His cardiac catheterization revealed a cardiac index of 2.45,
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure mean was 12, his right
atrial pressure was 8, his pulmonary artery pressure was
43/12, left ventricular 50/12, right ventricular pressure was
43/11.  His left ventriculography showed no mitral
regurgitation, ejection fraction was 35%, with anterior
dyskinesis.  His coronary angiography revealed a
right-dominant system.  There was no disease in the left main
coronary artery.  He had a 90% lesion in his left anterior
descending artery at second diagonal.  His first diagonal had
a proximal 90% lesion.  His left circumflex had a ramus
intermedius 90% proximal lesion with the obtuse marginal
bifurcation had serial 90% lesions to the inferior pole.
Finally, his dominant right coronary artery had a 90% lesion
in the posterolateral branch.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  Coronary artery disease:
The patient was transferred from an outside hospital for an
ST-elevation myocardial infarction after having been treated
with thrombolytic therapy.  He subsequently underwent a
cardiac catheterization at [**Hospital1 188**] which showed 3-vessel disease and subsequently was
referred to Cardiothoracic Surgery for a possible coronary
artery bypass graft.

After discussions with Cardiothoracic Surgery and Cardiology,
the patient elected to proceed with a 3-vessel percutaneous
coronary intervention rather than a coronary artery bypass
graft.  His creatine phosphokinase levels were followed
throughout his hospital course and peaked at 1020 on [**12-30**] with his CK/MB also peaking at 120 on this day.

Meanwhile, he was continued on aspirin.  He was started on
Plavix and Lipitor.  He had his beta blocker titrated as his
cardiovascular status allowed for.  He was weaned off his
nitroglycerin drip and was continued on a heparin drip while
awaiting his planned multivessel percutaneous coronary
intervention.

The patient returned to the Catheterization Laboratory on
[**1-1**] and underwent successful stenting of his right
posterolateral branch with cypher stent.  He underwent
successful stenting of his left anterior descending artery
lesion with a cypher stent.  He underwent successful stenting
of his first diagonal with a overlapping pixel stent.  Final
angiography showed TIMI-III flow in all intervened vessels.

Status post catheterization, he was briefly hypotensive after
his sheath was removed which responded to intravenous fluids.
Status post catheterization, he was maintained on Integrilin
per protocol and continued on the above-mentioned
medications; including aspirin, Plavix, statin, and beta
blocker.  His creatine phosphokinase levels were followed to
insure they were trending down by the time of discharge.

(b)  Pump function:  Despite normal right-sided filling
pressures, the patient was felt to be in mild congestive
heart failure based upon rales on examination and lower
extremity edema.  The patient was also mildly hypoxic and
wheezing on his examination.  He had an initial left
ventriculography which showed an ejection fraction of 35%;
although no comparison studies were available.  He eventually
was treated empirically for mild congestive heart failure.
He was started on by mouth Lasix 40 mg twice per day for a
goal diuresis of one liter negative per day.  He was
eventually weaned off nasal cannula.  He saturated well with
physical therapy.

A subsequent echocardiogram on [**1-4**] showed an ejection
fraction of greater than 55%.  Secondary to enlarge body
habitus it was difficult to exclude focal wall motion
abnormalities.  The patient was found to have trivial mitral
regurgitation and an impaired left ventricular inflow
pattern, suggestive of impaired relaxation and diastolic
dysfunction.  The patient was discharged on 40 mg of Lasix by
mouth twice per day.  The patient was continued on Toprol 75
mg by mouth once per day.  He was also continued on his
Diovan 160 mg by mouth once per day.   The patient was to
follow up with his primary care physician (Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 24298**] and
cardiologist (Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 32255**]) in several days' time for
further re-evaluation of his 