Admission Date:  [**2128-12-14**]     Discharge Date:  [**2128-12-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2064-3-1**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

DIAGNOSIS:  Acute inferior myocardial infarction.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 64 year old
male with a history of COPD who presented to outside hospital
complaining of intermittent substernal chest pain for five
days prior to admission.  On [**12-11**] the patient again
developed substernal chest pain with radiation to the left
arm that lasted for approximately five hours and resolved
spontaneously.  On [**12-13**] he again developed chest pain
that occurred intermittently throughout the day until he was
brought to an emergency department that evening.  An EKG in
that emergency department demonstrated 2 mm ST segment
elevations in leads 2, 3, aVF with persistent pain.  The
patient received tenecteplase.  His chest pain resolved after
the administration of tenecteplase with some improvement of
ST segment elevations on EKG.  The patient was monitored in
the intensive care unit overnight at the outside hospital
after receiving TNK.  At 7:30 a.m. on [**2128-12-14**], he
had two episodes of chest pain with 1 mm ST segment
elevations in leads 2, 3 and aVF again.  Intravenous
nitroglycerin drip was increased and his chest pain again
resolved.  His Lopressor dosage was increased to 25 mg p.o.
t.i.d. and an Integrilin drip was added to his regimen.  The
patient was then transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for failed lytic therapy after acute myocardial
infarction as an indication for cardiac catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  COPD.  Gout.  Esophageal stricture.
Status post carpal tunnel surgery.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Included allopurinol, Prilosec,
albuterol, theophylline, aspirin, Atrovent, Lipitor 20 mg
p.o. q.d., Integrilin drip on transfer, Prevacid, IV
nitroglycerin drip on transfer.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father and two brothers died from myocardial
infarction at ages between 60 and 80.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a two pack per day tobacco
user for many years.  He reports occasional ETOH use.  Denied
recreational drug use.  The patient is a retired truck driver
who is married with four children.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission this was an elderly
gentleman with temperature of 98.6, heart rate 65, blood
pressure 130/70, respiratory rate 16, saturation 98% in room
air.  The patient arrived in the CCU post catheterization.
General exam revealed a lethargic, 64 year old male in no
other distress.  Head, ear, nose, throat and neck exams
revealed normal extraocular movements with no icterus.  JVP
was 14 to 16 cm at 45 degrees of angle in bed.
Cardiovascular exam revealed normal S1, S2.  There was no S3,
no murmurs noted, no rubs or gallops.  Pulmonary exam
revealed bilateral diffuse son[**Name (NI) 7884**] [**Name2 (NI) 1440**] sounds with
expiratory wheezes.  There was mild decreased air entry
bilateral bases.  Abdominal exam revealed an abdomen that was
soft, nontender with normoactive bowel sounds and no
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremity exam revealed warm extremities
with intact pulses and no pedal edema.  The patient had right
groin minimal hematoma status post sheath pull from the cath
lab.  CNS exam revealed a mildly lethargic, 64 year old male,
arousable with normal extraocular movements, pupils that were
equal and reactive to light 2 mm bilaterally.  The patient
was oriented to place.  Neurologic exam was nonfocal with no
motor or focal sensory deficits.  Deep tendon reflexes were
intact throughout with downgoing toes bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission hematocrit was 39.9, white
blood cell count 10.7, platelet count 263.  Chemistry on
admission revealed sodium of 140, potassium 4.2, chloride
101, bicarbonate 30, BUN 14, creatinine 1.4.  Calc, mag, phos
were 10, 2.0 and 3.4.  Albumin was 3.1.  Cholesterol panel
revealed total cholesterol of 151, HDL 36, LDL 86,
triglycerides 147.  Liver function studies revealed AST of
25, ALT 25, alkaline phosphatase 123.  CPK as measured at the
outside hospital, first set was 66 with MB index of 7.5 and
troponin of 2.0.  The second set eight hours later CPK was
110, MB positive at 15.6 with troponin of 5.4.  After arrival
to [**Hospital1 69**] status post
catheterization CK was 97.  The patient's ECG showed #1 upon
presentation to outside hospital emergency department
revealed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 90.  PR interval
was 200 msec.  There were [**Street Address(2) 1766**] elevations in leads 2, 3
and aVF with [**Street Address(2) 4793**] depressions in leads 1, aVL.  There was
T wave flattening in leads V2 and V3 and Q waves noted in
leads V2 and V3.  There were early Q waves noted in leads 2
and 3.  EKG #2 post lysis administration of TNK revealed
normal sinus rhythm at 70 with 0.5 mm ST segment elevations
in leads 2, 3 and aVF with T wave inversions in leads 2, 3
and aVF.  The patient continues to have PR prolongation at
220 msec.  EKG #3 status post cardiac catheterization and
stenting at [**Hospital1 69**] revealed
normal sinus rhythm at 65 beats per minute with normal axis
and PR prolongation with PR interval of 220 msec.  There were
0.[**Street Address(2) 1755**] elevations in leads 2, 3 and aVF.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was transferred directly to the
cardiac catheterization lab at [**Hospital1 188**].  His catheterization on [**2128-12-14**], revealed
the following hemodynamics.  Cardiac output by Fick equation
was 3.86 with cardiac index of 1.78.  Pulmonary wedge
pressure had a mean of 26.  Right atrial pressure was 17.
Aortic systolic pressure was 105, diastolic pressure 71.  PA
pressure was 40/25 with a mean pressure of 32.  Right
ventricular pressure was 47/25.  Systolic vascular resistance
was measured at 1333 with pulmonary vascular resistance of
123.  Catheterization of the patient's coronary arteries
revealed 90% discrete stenosis in the proximal RCA, tubular
mid-RCA stenosis of 70% with normal acute marginal and normal
distal RCA.  Left main artery was patent.  LAD had serial
stenosis of the mid-vessel of 50% and 90% respectively with a
"moth-eaten" appearance of the lateral lesion suggesting
thrombus.  First diagonal artery had proximal 90% stenosis.
Left circumflex artery had mild diffuse disease throughout.
RCA was dominant with proximal 90% stenosis and mid-vessel
70% stenosis.  Left ventriculography was not performed.

The proximal RCA was treated with successful direct stenting.
The mid-RCA lesion was also treated with direct stenting.
The LAD lesions were not intervened upon at this time due to
the intervention that was performed on the RCA already.  The
patient was discharged to the coronary care unit for
monitoring overnight with the understanding that he would go
back to the cath lab in one to two days after stabilization
from his current IMI to receive further stenting of the LAD.

At the end of cardiac catheterization the patient was noted
to have some periorbital swelling and questionable tongue
swelling.  This was thought to be a dye reaction allergy.
The patient was given Solu-Medrol intravenously and 50 mg of
intravenous Benadryl.  The patient had altered mental status
with drowsiness and lethargy after receiving intravenous
Benadryl.  There was a concern for CNS bleeding as the
patient was status post lytic therapy at the outside hospital
with altered mental status status post cardiac
catheterization.  An emergency head CT was performed which
showed no intracranial bleeding.  The patient was maintained
on Integrilin drip and was given oral






                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 2053**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2052**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) **]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 37523**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2128-12-17**]  18:24
T:  [**2128-12-20**]  19:55
JOB#:  [**Job Number 37522**]
