Admission Date:  [**2179-12-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2179-12-31**]

Date of Birth:   [**2103-10-29**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Location (un) **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 110313**] is a 76 year old
Caucasian male with a history of asbestosis and restrictive
lung disease who was recently admitted to this hospital from
[**12-7**] through [**12-14**] for right lung decortication and
pleurectomy.  He is now representing with complaints of
increased shortness of breath since his prior discharge.
During the previous hospitalization, his hospital course was
complicated by exacerbation of his congestive heart failure
requiring Natrecor.  The patient also had two brief episodes
of hypotension and syncope.  In addition, the patient was
discontinued home with a Foley catheter due to the fact that
when the Foley catheter was removed prior to discharge the
patient was unable to urinate.  The patient was to have the
Foley catheter removed by the [**Hospital6 407**]
services at his home, however, before that has happened the
patient is returning to the hospital today.  With regards to
his current symptoms, the patient states that right after
returning home, however, before that as it happened the
patient is returning to the hospital today.  With regards to
his current symptoms, the patient states that right after
returning home from his prior discharge he started to develop
gradually increasing shortness of breath and weakness.  In
particular, the symptoms have worsened over the last 48
hours.  He also complains of decreased appetite and decreased
p.o. intake.  He also states that he had intermittent chest
pain in a band like fashion across the chest which is worse
with activity, however, he states that it is not pleuritic
chest pain.  He denies any cough, fevers or chills.  He
denies any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or abdominal pain.  The
patient states he has chronic lower extremity edema and has
not noticed any change in that in the recent days.  With
regards to his shortness of breath, the patient specifically
notes that it is significantly worse when he is sitting up
and therefore has spent most of the previous day lying
supine.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Asbestosis and restrictive lung disease:  The patient is
status post recent right lung decortication and pleurectomy.
2.  Dilated cardiomyopathy:  The patient's ejection fraction
is measured at 35%.
3.  History of supraventricular tachycardia.
4.  Pericarditis.
5.  Fatty liver.
6.  Alcoholic hepatitis.
7.  Status post cholecystectomy.
8.  Status post tonsillectomy.
9.  History of positive PPD.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Digoxin .125 mg q. day; Aspirin
325 mg q. day; Protonix 40 mg q. day; Colace 100 mg b.i.d.;
Dulcolax prn; Ambien prn; Percocet prn; Flomax .4 q. day;
Lasix 40 mg b.i.d.; Diovan 160 mg q. day; Ciprofloxacin for a
five day course.

In addition, the patient was previously taking Coreg 6.25 mg
b.i.d., however, this discharge he had been off of Coreg as
it was not included in his discharge medications although he
is not certain why.

ALLERGIES:  1.  Penicillin causes a rash; 2.  Shellfish
causes anaphylaxis.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has no recent alcohol abuse
history and denies any tobacco use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 97, pulse 92,
blood pressure 132/96, respiratory rate 18, oxygen saturation
100% on 3 liters.  In general, the patient is alert and
oriented but appears tired and chronically ill.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat examination:  Pupils are equally round
and reactive to light.  The sclera are anicteric and not
injected.  The oropharynx is clear with slightly dry mucus
membranes.  Neck examination:  There is no jugulovenous
distension or carotid bruit.  Lung examination:  The patient
has bibasilar crackles with decreased breath sounds at the
left base, upper fields have better air movement and no
crackles.  There are no wheezes throughout the lung fields.
Cardiovascular examination:  There is a regular rate and
rhythm with normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs or rubs.  Abdominal
examination:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  The liver edge
is 3 cm below the costal margin, positive bowel sounds.
Extremity examination:  There is 3+ pitting edema of
bilateral lower extremities.  The feet are warm to the touch
with 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses.  There is no calf tenderness.
Neurological examination:  Though the patient is limited by
his shortness of breath, he has a grossly intact neurological
examination.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission laboratory data revealed
complete blood count showing a normal white count of 8.0,
with a decreased hematocrit of 30.4, platelets 295.  Chem-7
is significant for a sodium of 128.  Digoxin level was .6,
TSH was within normal limits.  Urinalysis was within normal
limits.  Chest x-ray shows left pleural effusion which was
unchanged.  It also shows right and left mid lungs on
opacities.  There is no evidence of congestive heart failure.
Electrocardiogram, low voltage limb leads, normal axis,
normal intervals and T wave flattening isolated to V2.  No ST
or other T wave changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Shortness of breath - The patient was
clearly exhibiting ....................<as he had significant
increase in shortness of breath while upright and could not
tolerate this for more than a few seconds.  The most likely
causes of his shortness of breath are his congestive heart
failure, pneumonia, pleural effusion, and myocardial
infarction.  The patient was ruled out for an myocardial
infarction by cardiac enzymes.  It was thought that initially
his most likely etiology was congestive heart failure
exacerbation.  Therefore he was diuresed with Lasix.  The day
after admission he showed significant improvement in his
symptoms, however, subsequently he began to gradually worsen.
 At this point it was felt that the symptoms were not only
due to congestive heart failure, a computerized axial
tomography scan was obtained which showed a loculated
effusion in the right lung and a loculated smaller effusion
in the left lung as well as a questionable right upper lobe
ground-glass opacity.  As the patient was worsening and there
was this opacity seen on the x-ray there was a concern that
there might be a pneumonia contributing to the patient's
symptoms.  Therefore, he was started on Levaquin initially
for the treatment of community acquired pneumonia.  When his
symptoms again worsened, he was also started on Vancomycin
given that he had recently been in the hospital and could
have a Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection.
It was felt that the patient's symptoms most likely were due
to his significant pleural effusion, especially on the right
side.  Therefore he was scheduled for a pigtail catheter to
be placed in the right pleural effusion for drainage.  This
was done by Radiology.  When this catheter was placed, there
was a sanguinous drainage initially and that subsequently
became serosanguinous.  After the patient's pigtail catheter
placement due to the bloody drainage he was having, he was
transferred to the Medicine Intensive Care Unit for closer
monitoring.  He had an uncomplicated Medicine Intensive Care
Unit course where he received blood product transfusions both
for clotting and for maintenance of his hematocrit.  He did
well in the Medicine Intensive Care Unit and after the
placement of the pigtail catheter had a significant
improvement in symptoms.  He is able to sit forward with
minimal shortness of breath.  Several days after the initial
pigtail catheter placement and an inferior infusion, the
patient went back to Radiology for a thoracentesis of the
right anterior loculated infusion.  After this drainage, the
patient did report mild symptomatic improvement though not as
significant as after the previous drainage.  Prior to
discharge, the patient's pigtail catheter continued to
produce approximately 300 cc of serosanguinous output per 24
hours.  The plan was to maintain the catheter in place until
the drainage tapered off.

2.  Pneumonia - Though there is no definite evidence of
pneumonia, given the patient's continuous respiratory status,
it was felt that he would benefit from