Admission Date:  [**2191-4-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2191-4-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2141-10-19**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name 1181**]

ADDENDUM:

1.  Previous discharge summary ends at pulmonary issues, up
to the transfer to the floor.  When the patient was
transferred to the floor, she had a Pulmonary consult just as
followup since she had severe asthma and to establish future
care for her.  She was seen by the Pulmonary Consult Team.
They recommended checking pulmonary function tests, checking
her O2, weaning it down to appropriate levels.  They also
recommended repleting her potassium to help normalize her
metabolic alkalosis.  They also recommended checking her peak
flow.

Her pulmonary function tests were checked on the second day
of her stay on the floor.  Her FVC was 1.61, which was 50%
predicted.  Her FEV-1 was 0.54, which was 22% predicted.  Her
FEV-1 to FVC ratio was 44% of predicted.  After taking the
medication, she did not have much change of her FEV-1 to FVC
ratio.  She had a diffusion test which showed that it was 24%
of predicted.  Overall, the patient had good effort.  Her
pulmonary function tests were consistent with an obstructive
pattern without much reactive airway disease at this time.
The patient was to follow up with Pulmonary Clinic with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 575**] on [**5-12**] at 10:45 a.m.

2.  Cardiac.  The patient did not have any ischemic events
initially during the course of her admission.  Her
electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm.  She did have
initial hypertension in the setting of getting sedatives and
most likely also due to hypovolemia.  She was given
aggressive volume resuscitation with normal saline.  Her
sedation was titrated to reduce the chance of hypotension.
Hypertension was thought most likely secondary to
hypovolemia.

On the third day of her admission, she did have intermittent
periods of bradycardia, which were thought secondary to
sedation.  She had been difficult to wean off the ventilator.
Her thyroid levels were checked in the setting of her
bradycardia.

On the fourth day of admission, she continued to have poor
urine output.  In the setting of poor R wave progressions on
her electrocardiogram and her poor urine output, she was sent
for an echocardiogram.  The TSH came back at 0.13.  T4 was
3.7 and T3 was 33.  Her echocardiogram had shown an ejection
fraction greater than 55%, tricuspid regurgitation gradient
to 20 mmHg.  Left atrium was normal size.  Left ventricular
wall thickness and cavity size are normal.  Low normal left
ventricular systolic function.  Right ventricle is dilated
with moderate global right ventricular free wall hypokinesis
with 1+ mitral regurgitation.  She had a low TSH and a low
free T4, consistent with essential hypothyroidism.

She had a MRI to evaluate for pituitary for this
hypothyroidism.  Because of her slight heart failure, she was
given Lasix to improve her urine output.  The MRI was
obtained but patient was agitated and it was not an entirely
great study.  It had no abnormalities shown.

The right ventricular heart failure was thought secondary to
pulmonary hypertension from likely cor pulmonale secondary to
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or obstructive sleep
apnea.  She did not receive any thyroid replacement.

She continued to receive fluids.  On the seventh day of
admission she had episode of tachycardia.  This may have been
from her hypovolemia.  She was given Lasix 10 mg IV on a
p.r.n. basis to improve her urine output.  The Lasix was not
continued on the floors.  She had no ischemic events thus
far.

3.  Infectious Disease.  The patient had low-grade fever on
admission.  She was pancultured and did not have any positive
culture data initially.  Blood culture, sputum culture, and
urine culture were all sent.  She was initially treated with
levofloxacin for community-acquired pneumonia, possibly
bronchitis.  She continued to be on levofloxacin but had no
evidence of positive cultures.  Her chest x-ray did not
reveal any evidence of pneumonia.  However, she had improving
white blood counts.

On the fifth day of admission, she had a temperature spike of
101 degrees Fahrenheit.  Her culture data again was still
negative.  Initially the thought was to wait for further
culture data before changing her antibiotic regimen.  When
her MRI was taken to assess her pituitary, she was found to
have pansinusitis on the MRI.  For the sinusitis, she was
started on ceftazidime and metronidazole and the levofloxacin
was continued.  ENT was consulted, and they felt that the
changes were most consistent with a chronic sinusitis and not
an acute sinusitis.  They did not feel that any drainage was
necessary.  She did not need to be treated with antibiotics.
Subsequently, the ceftazidime and metronidazole were
discontinued.  Otherwise the patient was just continued on
the levofloxacin, and she did not have any further
temperature spikes.  Fever origin was not known.  Her
cultures remained negative.

4.  Endocrine.  The patient had evidence of right-sided heart
failure.  She also had her thyroid checked, and her initial
values were found to be hypothyroid.  She was bradycardic and
had hypokinesis on the echocardiogram with exophthalmos on
examination.  She had thyroid function tests.  Her TSH was
0.13, her T4 was 3.7 and T3 was 33.  She had a MRI which did
not reveal any evidence of pituitary lesion.  Her thyroid
function tests were repeated.  The repeat thyroid function
tests showed normalization.  They were within normal limits.
She did not require any further repletion with thyroid
hormone.  She was covered during this admission particularly
because she was on Solu-Medrol and now prednisone.

5.  Renal.  The patient had poor urine output during much of
the admission.  This was thought most likely secondary to
hypovolemia.  She received much fluid during this admission.
She became hypernatremic on the second day of admission with
a sodium of 147.  This was all thought to be due to
hypovolemia.  It was thought that the hypernatremia developed
also in the setting of fluid repletion and the normal sodium
load.  She had a fractional sodium that was suggestive of
dehydration.  Her urine output was still poor on the third
day of admission.  She continued with fluids.  Her urine
sodium was less than 10 on repeat.  She continued to receive
fluid boluses.  On the fifth day of admission, her urine
output was 805 ml and she was +2874 ml for that day.  At this
stage she was 18 liters positive.  Finally, on the fifth day
of admission she was started on Lasix 10 mg IV.  Her response
to this was improved urine output.  Over a 24-hour period she
increased her urine output to 1300 ml.  She was -275.  She
was positive for 17 liters.  Through the stay, her creatinine
was mildly increasing but never rose very high.  She seems to
have peaked at approximately 0.5.  Her BUN did increase,
though, suggestive of dehydration.  With Lasix, the patient
had increased urine output.

On the seventh day of admission, her urine output increased
to -3335 ml.  This was in the setting of receiving Lasix.
She then was in the process of autodiuresing.  Her output
over 24 hours was 4000 on the eighth day of admission.  Her
urine output had really improved, and she was no longer
thought to be so dehydrated.  Her urine output on the last
day of her unit stay was 3360 ml.  She was in the setting of
autodiuresing.  No more Lasix was given during the rest of
her admission.

6.  Hematology.  The patient had guaiac-positive stool during
this admission.  She also had an elevated INR of 1.3.  She
was given vitamin K initially subcutaneously times one.  It
was thought to be secondary to poor nutrition.  She was
started on Protonix.  Her hematocrit was watched during the
course of the admission.  It decreased from 46.8 on admission
to 36.4 to 31.8 on the third day of admission.  This was
thought most likely secondary to dilution.  Her hematocrit on
the next day was 33.1.  Her hematocrit from there on remained
relatively stable.  She will need a follow-up colonoscopy
when she is more stable or when her acute pulmonary issues
have improved.

The patient is to be discharged t