Admission Date: [**2138-6-5**]        Discharge Date: [**2138-6-11**]


Service:  MED


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 88 year old,
Spanish speaking female patient with a history of
hypertension who presented to her primary care physician with
[**Name Initial (PRE) **] several week history of shortness of breath.  The patient
was recently evaluated in clinic two weeks ago and given
antibiotics for a UTI.  She returned to her primary care
physician on the day of admission after a fall.  She was
prescribed antibiotics for right knee cellulitis.  At that
time the patient also complained of a two week history of
progressive dyspnea on exertion, experiencing shortness of
breath after 10 to 20 paces.  The patient's son states that
is significantly unchanged from her baseline.  The patient
denies any history of chest pain, palpitations, orthopnea,
PND, but does report lower extremity edema that has become
progressively worse over the last two weeks.  In addition to
these symptoms, the patient reports an occasional dry cough
and clear rhinorrhea.  The patient was sent to the emergency
department for echocardiogram which revealed a moderate sized
pericardial effusion with tamponade physiology and was sent
immediately to the cardiac catheterization lab for
pericardiocentesis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.

Anemia.

Urinary tract infection diagnosed two weeks prior to
admission.

Memory loss.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Zestril 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. Zithromax.


SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient currently lives alone and does
her own ADLs.  Her son lives nearby and the patient is seen
by home physical therapy occasionally.  She denies a history
of tobacco use and only drank occasionally throughout her
life.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 99.3, heart rate 101,
blood pressure 187/70, respiratory rate 32, 100 percent on 4
liters.  In general, somewhat ill appearing, elderly woman in
mild respiratory distress, moaning and speaking incoherently.
HEENT pupils equal, round, reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements intact.  Dry mucous membranes.  Oropharynx was
clear.  Neck jugular venous pressure was at the angle of the
jaw.  There was no thyromegaly or lymphadenopathy.  Lungs had
decreased breath sounds in bilateral bases with crackles up
approximately half way in bilateral lung fields.  Cardiac
regular rate and rhythm, normal S1, S2, no murmurs, rubs or
gallops appreciated.  Abdomen normoactive bowel sounds, soft,
nondistended, nontender.  Extremities 1 plus DP and PT pulses
bilaterally with 1 to 2 plus edema in bilateral lower
extremities.  Femoral pulses were 2 plus bilaterally.
Carotid pulses were 1 plus bilaterally with no bruits.  Psych
the patient was extremely anxious and had very poor memory,
minimally cooperative with the exam.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cells 12.6, hematocrit 32.8,
platelets 178.  INR 1.1.  Sodium 137, potassium 4.4, BUN 27,
creatinine 1.1, glucose 117.  EKG sinus rhythm at 100 beats
per minute, there were low limb lead voltages with no
electrical alternans and no ischemic changes.  Echocardiogram
ejection fraction 60 percent, 1 to 2 plus AI, moderate
effusion with tamponade physiology.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Pericardial effusion.  As noted previously,
the patient presented with a two week history of progressive
dyspnea on exertion and lower extremity edema, found on
echocardiogram to have moderate pleural effusion with
tamponade physiology.  The patient was taken emergently to
the cardiac catheterization lab where she underwent
pericardiocentesis of 450 cc of bloody effusion.  An
echocardiogram performed after the procedure showed no
residual effusion and hemodynamics revealed improved RA
pressure of 10 and pericardial pressure of 4 following
pericardiocentesis.  The patient was transferred to the CCU
for monitoring, given mild respiratory distress.  Workup for
the etiology of the pericardial effusion was performed and
was negative.  The patient had [**Doctor First Name **] and rheumatoid factor that
were negative.  TSH was normal.  She had a PPD that was
negative.  She had SPEP and UPEP to rule out amyloid, the
results of which are pending at the time of dictation.  The
patient had iron studies which did not suggest
hemochromatosis, but rather revealed anemia of chronic
disease.  Cytology performed on the pericardial fluid was
negative.  The likely etiology of the patient's pericardial
effusion is considered infectious versus malignant.  It is
anticipated that the patient will evaluated with age
appropriate cancer screening as an outpatient.  The patient
was evaluated with serial echocardiograms throughout the
remainder of her hospitalization that showed no
reaccumulation of fluid and no evidence of tamponade
physiology.  The patient remained hemodynamically stable and
asymptomatic throughout the remainder of her hospitalization.

CHF.  As noted previously, the patient was evaluated with
multiple echocardiograms throughout her hospitalization which
revealed an ejection fraction of 60 percent.  The patient is
considered to have diastolic dysfunction and was started on a
beta blocker and continued on an ACE inhibitor throughout
this admission.  The patient was diuresed gently throughout
her hospitalization and had improvement in her lower
extremity edema and oxygen saturation.  Serial chest x-rays
showed very little change in the patient's bilateral pleural
effusions.  The patient was evaluated by the interventional
pulmonary team who performed thoracentesis.  Evaluation of
the pleural fluid revealed a transudate and the etiology was
considered likely secondary to diastolic dysfunction.  The
plan is to continue gentle diuresis, though if the bilateral
pleural effusions persist, the interventional pulmonary team
recommended considering bilateral pigtail chest tubes.  The
patient's beta blocker dose was titrated up as tolerated by
her blood pressure.

Rhythm.  The patient was noted throughout this admission to
have periodic episodes of atrial fibrillation, atrial
bigeminy and multifocal atrial tachycardia.  As noted
previously, the patient was started on a beta blocker, the
dose of which was titrated up.  Given persistent paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation, the patient was started on amiodarone.
The patient had improved rate and rhythm control prior to
discharge, but will need an event monitor on discharge to
follow her QT interval and rate.

Renal.  The patient was admitted with creatinine of 1.1 which
increased to 1.5 with Lasix treatment.  As her diuresis with
Lasix was decreased, the patient's creatinine improved.

Cellulitis.  The patient was admitted with a recent history
of cellulitis of her right knee after a fall.  Given an
initial concern for concomitant pneumonia, the patient was
started on levofloxacin which she continued for seven days.
The patient's erythema, edema and warmth improved
dramatically with antibiotic therapy.

FEN.  The patient was continued on a cardiac diet throughout
this hospitalization.  She was evaluated by the speech and
swallow consult service prior to discharge.  The patient
demonstrated an adequate ability to swallow without evidence
of aspiration.  Per the patient's request and given her
dementia, the speech and swallow consult service recommended
a pureed solid diet.

Psych.  The patient was extremely anxious throughout her
hospitalization with episodes of agitation and yelling.  She
was evaluated by the psychiatry consult service who felt that
her clinical presentation was most consistent with moderate
dementia likely Alzheimer type with superimposed mild
delirium.  As noted previously, the patient's TSH was normal
and RPR was checked to complete the medical workup.  The
patient was treated with Seroquel 25 mg p.o. q.h.s.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.  Oxygenating well on 2 liters.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient is discharged to an extended
care facility.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Pericardial effusion.

Diastolic dysfunction.

Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

Dementia likely Alzheimer type.

Cellulitis.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Metoprolol 75 mg p.o. t.i.d.
2. Zestril 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. t.i.d. for one week, then 400 