Admission Date:  [**2160-12-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2160-12-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2108-2-26**]       Sex:  M

Service: Neurosurgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 52-year-old
gentleman with a history of diarrhea, nausea, cough, and
headache times one week who has multiple medical problems who
is on Coumadin for aortic valve replacement and mitral valve
replacement.  His headache symptoms were of a gradual onset
not associated with nausea or vomiting, blurry vision, or
neck rigidity.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature 97??????, heart
rate 68, blood pressure 128/76, respirations 20, oxygen
saturation 100% on room air.  General:  He was an emaciated
male.  He looked older than his chronological age.  Head:
Atraumatic.  Right pupil 5 down to 4, left 6 down to 3.
Neck:  Supple.  Chest:  Clear to auscultation.
Cardiovascular:  S1 and S2.  Positive murmur.  Abdomen:
Protuberant, old well-healed scar.  Soft.  Positive bowel
sounds.  Nontender.  Extremities:  Contracture of the toes.
Skin breakdown of the left anterior skin.  Pulses:  Positive.
Back:  Nontender.  Flank:  Nontender.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus.  Coronary artery disease with a myocardial
infarction in [**2154**] status post coronary artery bypass
grafting times two in [**2155**] with aortic valve replacement and
mitral valve replacement.  Atrial fibrillation.  Congestive
heart failure with an ejection fraction of 20-30%.  End-stage
renal disease status post four failed renal transplants on
hemodialysis q.Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.  Hypertension.
Gout.  Hepatitis C.  Peripheral vascular disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Right femoral to popliteal bypass
graft.  Right patellofemoral popliteal bypass graft.  Left
femoral to popliteal bypass graft.  Coronary artery bypass
grafting times two.  Hernia repair.  Toe amputation.  Left
arm fistula placement.

ALLERGIES:  CYCLOSPORIN.

LABORATORY DATA:  The patient had a head CT in the Emergency
Room which showed right frontal subdural hematoma with acute
chronic component with mass affect on the adjacent sulci,
right lateral ventricle effacement, and 7-8 mm midline shift.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the
Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit.  He was awake, alert, and
oriented times three.  His cranial nerves were intact.  His
motor strength was 5 out of 5.  Reflexes were normal.  His
toes were downgoing.  Finger-to-nose test and heel-to-shin
test were normal.

On [**2160-12-6**], the patient underwent right frontal
craniotomy for drainage of the subdural hematoma without
intraoperative complications.

Postoperatively the patient was monitored in the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit.  His vitals signs were stable.  He was
afebrile.  He was awake, alert, and oriented times three.

Prior to surgery, his INR was 3.9.  He was corrected with FFP
and received dialysis in the SICU prior to going to the OR.
He was followed by the Renal and Cardiology Service.  He was
taken off Coumadin.  Repeat head CT on [**2160-12-7**],
showed interval decrease in the amount of chronic appearance
of the right subdural with the acute component still present
and unchanged.  There has been improvement in the degree of
midline shift.

He was transferred to the floor on [**2160-12-7**].  He had a
repeat head CT on [**12-9**] which was unchanged.  His
neurologic status continued to remain stable.  He was awake,
alert, and oriented times three, and moving all extremities
strongly.  He was seen by Physical Therapy and Occupational
Therapy and found to be safe for discharge to home.  His
incision was clean, dry, and intact.

He will discharged to home with follow-up for his dialysis
three times a week.  He will follow-up with his cardiologist.
He will be restarted on his Coumadin in two weeks after
surgery keeping his INR between 1.5 and 2.0.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Amiodarone 100 mg p.o. q.d.,
Nephrocaps 1 p.o. q.d., Dilantin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Allopurinol 100 mg p.o. q.d., Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Remegel 800 mg tab 4 tab p.o. t.i.d., Prednisone 5 mg p.o.
q.d., Vasotec 10 mg p.o. b.i.d., Zantac 150 mg p.o. q.d.,
Percocet [**12-3**] tab p.o. q.4 hours p.r.n. for severe headache.

DISPOSITION:  The patient's vitals signs were stable, and he
was afebrile.  His attending is actually Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name (STitle) 1132**].  He
will be discharged home in stable condition and follow-up
with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1132**] in two weeks with repeat head CT at that time.







                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1133**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 344**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2160-12-11**]  10:40
T:  [**2160-12-11**]  10:37
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
