Admission Date:  [**2116-12-30**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2043-2-2**]       Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73 year old
female with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
two vessel coronary artery bypass graft with ischemic
cardiomyopathy, hypertension, diabetes type II,
hypercholesterolemia; chronic gastrointestinal bleed,
secondary to arteriovenous malformation, hypothyroidism and
chronic renal insufficiency who presents with several
complaints. Her first complaint is abdominal fullness times
two days but not abdominal pain. No history of fevers or
chills, no nausea or vomiting.  She has had some loose stools
over the past several days prior to admission but no blood in
her stool.  She recently returned from [**State 108**] with
intermittent chest pain but no shortness of breath, with no
radiation to the back.  She has also had some dysuria with
urination as well.

In the Emergency Department, her temperature was noted to be
93 degrees orally.  Her blood pressure was 110/50.  Her heart
rate was 42.  Electrocardiogram was showing a slow atrial
fibrillation versus a primary arteriovenous block.

LABORATORY DATA:  Notable for a BUN of 128 and creatinine of
7.5.  Her hematocrit was decreased at 28.8.  Her urinalysis
was positive for an infection.  In the Emergency Department,
her blood pressure dropped transiently to 85 over 40.  She
was subsequently transferred to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit for his hypotension.

Other past medical history, as stated in the history of
present illness, plus Helicobacter pylori infections in the
past, hypothyroidism, osteoarthritis, iron deficiency anemia
and mild pulmonary hypertension.  The medications she is on
at home are Synthroid, Tricor, Cor-reg, Nexium, iron, Diovan,
Tylenol, Isordil, Zaroxolyn, Bumex, Colace, Neurontin and
Humulin 70/30.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin which causes a rash. Codeine which
causes an unknown reaction.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, the patient was a
pleasant, Spanish-speaking woman, resting comfortably in bed.
Her temperature was 96.1 degrees; heart rate was 57; blood
pressure was 100/37; respirations were 17.  She was
saturating 99% on room air.  HEAD, EYES, EARS, NOSE AND
THROAT:  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Extraocular movements intact.  She had moist
mucous membranes. Her neck was supple. No jugular venous
distention was appreciated; however, it was difficult due to
her body habitus.  Her lungs were clear to auscultation with
no rales.  Cardiac examination demonstrated bradycardia and a
2/6 systolic murmur at the left sternal border that radiated
to the axilla.  Her abdomen was obese but soft, nontender and
nondistended.  Rectal examination demonstrated guaiac
positive brown stool which was noted in the Emergency
Department.  Her skin showed multiple ecchymosis on her upper
arms.  Extremities had 2+ edema to the knees. Neurologic:
Alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves 2 through 12
were intact.

Laboratory values on admission demonstrated a white count of
4.0; hematocrit was 28.8; platelets were 55.  Her INR was
1.6.  PTT was 28.  Chemistry 7 showed a sodium of 138,
potassium of 4.6, chloride of 107, bicarbonate of 16, BUN of
128; creatinine of 7.5 and glucose of 81.  Urinalysis showed
trace protein; greater than 50 white blood cells, many
bacteria.

CK was 432; MB was 16 and troponin was .03.

Electrocardiogram showed bradycardia with possible atrial
fibrillation versus primary arteriovenous block.  She had an
abdominal x-ray that showed no evidence of obstruction. She
had a chest x-ray that showed mild congestive heart failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  73 year old woman with multiple medical
problems, now presenting in acute renal failure, possibly
acute on chronic renal failure and hypotensive.  In the
Medical Intensive Care Unit, the patient was started on
Dopamine for pressure support, in consideration of her dirty
urinalysis and her positive DIC labs.  There was a question
of urosepsis.  A Swan was placed at one point in the Medical
Intensive Care Unit which showed a wedge of 28 and a PAP of
61/29 with a mean of 46.  This suggested that the patient was
in clinical congestive heart failure and volume overload.

By hospital day number three, the patient was started on a
Lasix drip. She had intermittent episodes of hypotension and,
on hospital day number six, required titration of her
Dopamine and Dobutamine that she was subsequently started on.
The patient began hemodialysis on hospital day number four
with an average goal of one to two liters removed each time.
With regard to her drop in platelets, the patient was found
to be Heparin induced thrombocytopenic, antibody positive and
she was subsequently taken off all heparin products.  By
hospital day number seven, the patient was weaned off
Dopamine and started on Hydralazine and Natrecor.  Also, on
hospital day number seven, the patient was transferred out of
the Medical Intensive Care Unit and onto the floor.

In terms of the patient's infectious disease issues, she had
three out of three blood cultures taken on hospital day
number five which grew out Methicillin resistant staph
aureus.  She was subsequently started on Vancomycin and that
was dosed by levels each day.  In terms of her cardiovascular
status, the patient was initially started on the Lasix drip
on the floor with a goal diuresis of negative 500 to a liter
cc per day. She was subsequently switched over to 80
intravenous twice a day and ultimately 80 mg p.o. twice a day
which is her current dose.  On average, she diuresed 500 to
700 cc a day, negative.  Her fluid status was also managed
via dialysis which was performed several times per week.

In terms of her rhythm status and her bradycardia, we were
holding all her nodal blockers and monitored her on tele.
Her rhythm appeared to be a primary arteriovenous block with
a PR interval in upwards of 400 milliseconds.  In terms of
her coronary artery disease, she was continued on her
aspirin, statin and an ace inhibitor was slowly added on
hospital day number eight.

In terms of her renal status, she received hemodialysis
intermittently throughout her hospital course but remained
generally azotemic.  A 24 hour urine creatinine was being
collected at the time of this discharge summary.  In terms of
her hematologic status, the patient was HIT antibody
positive.  No heparin products were continued.  The patient
was transfused to keep her hematocrit above 28. On hospital
day number 13, the patient required a transfusion due to a
hematocrit of 25.  She was also on Epogen and iron for iron
deficiency anemia and chronic renal insufficiency anemia
respectively.

In terms of her pulmonary status, she was continued on her
Fluticasone and Ipratropium.  In terms of her
gastrointestinal status, the patient chronically had guaiac
positive stools that were dark; however, she was being
treated with iron which somewhat obscured the results. On
hospital day number 13, her iron was held to see if the
guaiac positivity cleared.  The results of holding the iron
are unknown at the time of this discharge summary.  In terms
of her electrolyte status, she was repleted as needed, in
terms of her potassium and magnesium.

This discharge summary is dictated up to [**2117-1-10**] and the
remainder of the patient's course will be dictated by the
intern coming on the service, including discharge
medications.




                            [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1197**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3809**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2117-1-10**]  05:28
T:  [**2117-1-10**]  18:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 103244**]
