Admission Date:  [**2184-12-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2185-1-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2140-3-4**]     Sex:  F

Service: Neurosurgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 44 year old black
female who had a sudden onset of severe headache at 08:20
p.m. on [**2184-12-8**] followed by what looks like loss of
consciousness.  She awoke and vomited twice and complained of
a headache which was located in the front and back of her
head.  She was brought to the [**Hospital 4415**].  On
arrival, her blood pressure was 228/110; her pulse was 58.
She was given Labetalol and nimodipine and one gram of
Dilantin intravenously.  CT scan showed a subarachnoid
hemorrhage in the cisterns and the Sylvian fissure.  An MRI /
MRA was done with no apparent aneurysm but possible left PCOM
aneurysm and possible right ICA aneurysm.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Asthma.
2.  Depression.
3.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.

She denies any hypertension.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Ankle surgery.

ALLERGIES:   Penicillin.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Albuterol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Tobacco, four to five cigarettes per day;
ETOH occasional.  The patient lives in [**Location **] and does have
two children at home that she takes care of.  It is also
significant to note that the patient is a Jehovah's Witness.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, she was a
well nourished, well developed black female in no acute
distress complaining of a headache.  The head was
normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils were clear.  On
examination, the patient did complain of some blurred vision,
diplopia in the midline.  Nose and mouth were within normal
limits.  Examination of the neck showed nuchal rigidity.
Lungs were clear.  Cardiovascular examination reveals regular
rate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or gallops are appreciated.
On abdominal examination, abdomen was soft and the abdomen
was nontender.  Extremities show no cyanosis, clubbing or
edema.  On neurologic testing, she was alert and oriented
times three, fluent speech.  Cranial nerves were equal and
reactive pupils to light and accommodation.  Extraocular
movements are intact.  The face was symmetric.  Tongue was
midline.  The patient did complain of some diplopia.  Cranial
nerve V was intact.  On motor examination, there is no upper
extremity drift.  There was a five over five upper and lower
extremities bilaterally.  Cerebellar function reveals a
normal finger to nose examination.

LABORATORY:  The patient underwent a CT angiogram and was
given Mucomyst at an outside hospital for elevated creatinine
levels.  The CT angiogram showed bilateral PCOM aneurysms.
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred
to [**Hospital1 69**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On arrival to [**Hospital1 188**], she was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for q.
one hour neurologic checks.  Her blood pressure was kept less
than 140.  A Foley catheter was in place.  Arterial line was
asked to be started and she was started on Protonix for GI
prophylaxis and boots for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis.

On arrival, her blood pressure was 120/62; she was awake,
alert and oriented times three, moving all extremities with
good strength.  Speech was fluent.  Pupils equally round and
reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular muscles are
full.  The patient underwent on [**12-10**], an angiogram which
showed PCOM artery aneurysm and right cavernous carotid
aneurysm.  She had a coiling of her right PCOM aneurysm and
the PCOM was coiled with minimum residual leak.  She had a
ventriculostomy drain placed without any complications.

Postoperatively, she also had a triple lumen subclavian line
placed without complications.  On her first postoperative day
her ICPs were 9 to 12.  Her pupils were 3.5.  She was
following commands, awake, alert and oriented times three.
Her drain was kept at 12 mm above the tragus, 12 mm of water
above the tragus.

On the first of [**Month (only) 1096**], she was changed to Nipride to
maintain her blood pressure in the 150 range.  Sodium checks
were q. four.  She was NPO past midnight to have her second
coiling of her left PCOM.  On the second, her temperature
maximum was 101.4 F., her ICPs were 5 to 14.  She had a fever
work-up which showed negative cerebrospinal fluid.  Blood
cultures and stool were pending.

She did go to the angio suite where she underwent an
angiogram on [**2184-12-14**], which showed severe right ICA,
middle cerebral artery, and ACA vasospasm.  She underwent
endovascular coil embolization of the left posterior
communicating artery and aneurysm and she also was status
post supra-selective infusion of papaverine for treatment of
her cerebral vasospasm.

Postoperatively, her drain was kept at 12, her systolic blood
pressure kept between 160 and 180, close neurologic checks,
CVP between 8 to 10; pCO2 was kept between 37 and 45 and her
sodiums were checked very closely to rule out hyponatremia.
Postoperatively, her temperature maximum was 101.6 F.; her
Dilantin level was 9.5, ICPs were 4 to 11; CVP 5 to 13.
Ventriculostomy drain was draining well.  Her hematocrit was
at 31.  She was awake and communicative.  Extraocular
movements are intact.  Subtle ptosis on right side.  Face was
symmetric.  Moves upper extremities against gravity.
Bilateral inattentive jerk.  Grip was five out of five on the
right and four plus on the left.  She continued to be
monitored closely with arterial blood gases and her sodiums
and kept euvolemic.  She was currently on Vancomycin for
drain prophylaxis.  She was also nimodipine 60 mg p.o. q.
four hours for her vasospasm and Dilantin as prophylaxis
seizures.

She did have an episode where she became aphasic overnight
and got a STAT head CT scan which showed no hemorrhage.
Questionable possible area of stroke.  On the 4th, she was
started on albumin 25 mg intravenous q. eight hours to
maintain her CVP.  She was also pan cultured on the same day
for a temperature of 101.0 F.  Thus far, her labs initially
showed no growth.  Chest x-ray was unremarkable.

Her blood pressure parameters were increased to 180/200 on
the 5th due to significant vasospasm.  She was continued on
albumin 25% q. six hours to maintain her CVP between 8 to 10
at all times.  She was started on Levaquin p.o. for a
positive urine culture which showed E. coli.  It was also
noted that she had a murmur radiating to her neck, four out
of six.

She had a cardiac echocardiogram done on the [**9-27**]
which showed a left atrium which was mildly dilated; right
atrium was mildly dilated.  Severe symmetric left ventricular
hypertrophy; ejection fraction was greater than 75%.  The
right ventricular chamber motions were normal.  Aortic valve
was mildly thickened and there was one plus mitral
regurgitation seen with moderate sized pericardial effusion.
Her groin lines were discontinued on [**2184-12-19**].

She was maintained on Neo to maintain her blood pressures in
the 160s to 180 range.  On the [**9-20**], her
postoperative day number ten status post her coiling, she was
on Vancomycin and Levofloxacin, subcutaneous heparin,
Nimodipine, Dilantin and a Neo drip at 4.0.  Temperature was
at 102.3 F.  Hematocrit was 36.8, platelets 372, white blood
cell count 18.6.  Sodium 143.  ICPs were 6 to 14.  CVP was 4
to 13.  Cerebrospinal fluid was Gram stain negative.

She had been pan cultured and all those were pending.  She
was awake and alert.  Her eyes were open and attentive.  Face
was symmetric.  Grips were full and no hematoma.  On the [**9-22**], a head CT scan was obtained and there was
interval infarctions noted in the right and the left frontal
lobe and parietal cortex.  No hydrocephalus.  Overall, slight
decrease in the amount of diffuse brain edema.  She underwent
a diagnostic angiogram on the same day which showed
persistent severe vasospasm of the bilateral middle cerebral
arteries and internal carotid arteries which is proximal also
to the basilar arteries.

Postoperatively she was following commands, speech was
fluent, grips and IPs were full.  Her femoral and popliteal
pulses were intact.  She was stable post angiogram.  We
started her on iron due to her hematocrit being 28.9 and the
patient was a Jehovah'