Admission Date:  [**2140-11-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2140-11-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2078-9-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine, [**Hospital1 **] Firm

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Gastrointestinal bleed.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 62-year-old
Caucasian gentleman with a history of 3-vessel disease,
peripheral vascular disease, congestive heart failure (with
an ejection fraction of 25%), and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease who presented to the Emergency Department
with depression and question of suicidal ideation.

He had been seen previously the day before after falling from
his wheelchair.  Imaging at that time was negative, and he
was sent home.  During his Emergency Department evaluation,
he reported nausea, vomiting, and shortness of breath.  His
last drink (per patient) was the day before.  In the
Emergency Department he became more confused, tachycardic to
the 120s, and hypertensive with systolic blood pressures
between 180 to 200.  Laboratories in the Emergency Department
were notable for a hematocrit of 27.6 (down from a previous
baseline of 41), with guaiac-positive melanic stools on
rectal examination, and a nasogastric lavage notable for
coffee-grounds.

A continued workup in the Emergency Department was notable
for a chest x-ray with a right lower lobe infiltrate.  An
electrocardiogram revealed increased ST depressions over
baseline in V4 through V6 with the patient tachycardic.

At that time, he was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit.  Gastroenterology was consulted with Protonix 40 mg by
mouth twice per day started.  A central line was placed, and
he was transfused two units of packed red blood cells.  In
the Medical Intensive Care Unit, an ultrasound-guided
thoracentesis was done on the right pleural effusion and was
negative for empyema; however, he became increasingly hypoxic
and was finally intubated on [**2140-11-4**].

An esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) was done which showed
gastritis, but no other source of bleeding.  He had received
two units of packed red blood cells, and his hematocrit
stabilized.  His Medical Intensive Care Unit course was
further complicated for a new right middle lobe infiltrate
for which he was started on vancomycin.  He was unable to be
extubated until [**11-13**] secondary to congestive heart
failure and multilobar pneumonia.

On [**11-13**], he was transferred from the Medical Intensive
Care Unit to the medicine floor.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease; catheterization in [**2140-11-2**] which showed 3-vessel disease.
 2.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post left above-knee
amputation.
 3.  Congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of
25% with 2+ mitral regurgitation).
 4.  Pulmonary hypertension.
 5.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
 6.  Alcoholism.
 7.  Depression.
 8.  Prior suicide attempts (per patient).
 9.  Prostate-specific antigen.
10.  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

ALLERGIES:  There were no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Medications at home included)
 1.  Aspirin.
 2.  Desipramine 30 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Toprol 50 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Multivitamin one tablet by mouth once per day.
 5.  Thiamine.
 6.  Folate.
 7.  Isordil 10 mg by mouth three times per day.
 8.  Lasix 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 9.  Neurontin 300 mg by mouth three times per day.
10.  Trazodone 200 mg by mouth once per day.
11.  Zoloft 200 mg by mouth once per day.
12.  Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once per day.
13.  Captopril 50 mg by mouth three times per day.
14.  Flovent.
15.  Percocet.
16.  Combivent.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  (On transfer to [**Hospital **]
Rehabilitation included)
 1.  Oxycodone 5 mg by mouth q.4-6h. as needed.
 2.  Trazodone 100 mg by mouth twice per day as needed.
 3.  Captopril 37.5 mg by mouth three times per day.
 4.  Colace 100 mg by mouth twice per day.
 5.  Protonix 40 mg by mouth twice per day.
 6.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Multivitamin one tablet by mouth once per day.
 8.  Zinc sulfate 220 mg by mouth once per day.
 9.  Ascorbic acid 500 mg by mouth twice per day.
10.  Thiamine 100 mg by mouth once per day.
11.  Folic acid 1 mg by mouth once per day.
12.  Albuterol meter-dosed inhaler 2 puffs inhaled four times
per day as needed.
13.  Clindamycin 600 mg intravenously q.8h. (for three more
days).
14.  Levaquin 500 mg intravenously once per day (for three
more days).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient's temperature maximum was 98.6 degrees
Fahrenheit, his blood pressure was 114/86, his heart rate was
60s to 90s, his respiratory rate was 12 to 20, and his oxygen
saturation was 100% on room air.  The general physical
examination when he was transferred to the floor revealed the
patient was a thin Caucasian gentleman lying in bed with a
left above-knee amputation.  His head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination was normocephalic and atraumatic.  Pupils
were equal and reactive.  Extraocular movements were full.
Cardiovascular examination revealed the patient had a regular
rate and rhythm with distant heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs,
or gallops were noted.  Lung examination revealed right
basilar crackles.  The abdominal examination revealed normal
active bowel sounds.  The abdomen was nontender and
nondistended.  No masses.  Extremity examination revealed no
clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  There was a left lower
extremity above-knee amputation.  Dermatologic examination
revealed he had a right knee abrasion noted as well as a 1-cm
stage 1 sacral decubitus ulceration with Duoderm dressing.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
revealed his white blood cell count was 9, his hematocrit was
31 from 36 (stabilized), and his platelets were 300.  His
sodium was 132, potassium was 4.2, chloride was 94,
bicarbonate was 28, blood urea nitrogen was 15, creatinine
was 0.4, and blood glucose was 114.  Calcium was 9, phosphate
was 4.2, and his magnesium was 2.1.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient had multilobar
pneumonia.  The sputum was notable only for
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.  He received
seven days of vancomycin intravenously.  In addition, on the
day of discharge, he was on day [**12-16**] of Levaquin and
clindamycin given his increased risk of aspiration at the
time of presentation.

2.  RESPIRATORY ISSUES:  The patient was extubated and
required no oxygen since extubation.

3.  GASTROINTESTINAL ISSUES:  The patient had no further
bleeding.  He had a stable hematocrit.  He may need a
colonoscopy as an outpatient, as there was no source of
bleeding found on his esophagogastroduodenoscopy.  His
hematocrit was stable, and he required no further blood
transfusions.  He was to continue on Protonix 40 mg by mouth
twice per day.

Moreover, he was noted to have elevated transaminases between
90 to 100 with an elevated alkaline phosphatase and elevated
amylase and lipase.  However, he was completely stable during
his hospitalization.  He was eating and drinking without
nausea, vomiting, or abdominal pain.  His most recent values
were an ALT of 96, AST was 116, his alkaline phosphatase was
260, his amylase was 244, and his lipase was 144.

4.  ALCOHOL WITHDRAWAL ISSUES:  The patient was maintained
initially on benzodiazepines as he had a history of previous
alcohol withdrawal.  It was thought that his difficult
extubation was related to the benzodiazepines, and he was
given a trial of flumazenil.  He required no further
benzodiazepines since transfer to the floor.

At first the patient was interested in detoxification, but
later during his hospitalization he showed no further
interest.

5.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  The patient had electrocardiogram
changes seen on admission with a positive troponin and
creatine kinase levels which were thought secondary to demand
ischemia.  The patient became less tachycardic and he had no
other symptoms during his stay here.  He was managed
medically at this time, and we continued him on aspirin, ACE
inhibitor, and beta blocker.

6.  PSYCHIATRIC ISSUES:  The patient ini