Admission Date:  [**2113-9-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2113-10-9**]


Service:  CCU Medicine

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  This is an 87 year old female,
resident-[**Hospital3 **] with ischemic cardiomyopathy, with
severe diastolic dysfunction, right ventricular systolic
dysfunction, with an ejection fraction of 45 to 50%, severe
pulmonary artery systolic hypertension and severe tricuspid
and mitral regurgitation (not a surgical candidate) who
presented with a heart failure exacerbation, and admitted to
the CCU for inotropic support and tailored diuresis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The past medical history is
significant for coronary artery disease, status post a
coronary artery bypass graft times four in [**2102**], chronic
atrial fibrillation, first diagnosed two years ago on
Coumadin (presents with INR of 4.0 on admission), chronic
renal insufficiency, (baseline creatinine of 1.7), chronic
hypoxia on 2 liters of home oxygen, restricted lung disease,
lung cancer, status post wedge resection, breast cancer,
status post mastectomy, gout, anemia, cholelithiasis, history
of recurrent urinary tract infections and frequent pyuria,
dysuria, Do-Not-Resuscitate/Do-Not-Intubate code status.  The
patient's dry weight is 149 lbs.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient had recent worsening
of heart failure over the past two months prior to admission.
She was seen in the Heart Failure Clinic by Dr. [**First Name (STitle) 2031**] on
[**2113-9-25**] with worsening shortness of breath,
increased weight gain, decreased ability to carry on
activities of daily living where she was treated medically at
the time.  The day prior to admission she had a three pound
weight gain, dyspnea with dressing, walking at a normal pace
and increased ankle edema.  Her supplemental oxygen
requirement was unchanged.  She denied lightheadedness,
weakness, fevers, chills, dysuria.  She did have a dry cough,
though.  At baseline she is alert and oriented times three
with mild amnesia.  She performs activities of daily living
independently at her [**Hospital3 **] home.

In the Emergency Room she presented short of breath.  She
dropped her systolic blood pressure to the 60s, requiring
Dopamine via peripheral intravenous line (INR at 4.0
precluded central access) with an increase in her systolic
blood pressure to the 100s.  Her oxygen saturation dropped to
75 to 80% range and she was placed on 100% nonrebreather.
She was noted to have mental status changes at the time.  Her
arterial blood gas was 7.21/71/93 and improved to 7.30/53/66
on 6 liters of oxygen with improvement of her mental status
(carbon dioxide retainer at baseline, difficult to
oxygenate).  Also she was noted to have a urinary tract
infection, acute and chronic renal failure.  She was admitted
to the CCU for inotropic support/aggressive/tailored
diuresis.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission
revealed temperature 98.8, blood pressure 108/46 on 2.5 of
Dopamine, heartrate 90 to 110, sating at 98% on 6  liters of
oxygen, respiratory rate 18 to 24.  In general she was an
elderly female, in mild respiratory distress, somewhat
somnolent.  Her mucous membranes were moist.  Her oropharynx
was clear without exudate.  Her jugulovenous pressure was
elevated to her chin.  She had no carotid bruits.  Her heart
was irregular/irregular with III/VI holosystolic murmur at
the right lower sternal border, radiating to the axilla with
a positive S3.  Her lungs had bibasilar crackles halfway up.
Her abdomen was mildly distended, nontender.  She was alert
and oriented times three.  Her cranial nerves II through XII
were intact.  She had nonfocal neurological examination.

LABORATORY DATA:  Significant laboratory data on admission
revealed sodium 135, potassium 5.3, chloride 98, bicarbonate
24, BUN 102, creatinine 3.0, glucose 135, white blood cell
count 8.5, hematocrit 30.4, platelets 143.  Liver function
tests were within normal limits.  Urinalysis showed greater
than 50 white blood cells, positive leukocyte esterase and
trace protein.  Coagulation screen on admission were PT 24,
PTT 37.2, INR 4.0.  Electrocardiogram on admission, atrial
fibrillation at 69 beats/minute with left axis deviation, T
wave inversions in leads 1, AVL (old T wave inversions),
premature ventricular contractions, no ST changes, question
of Q in 3.  Digoxin level on admission 1.3, creatinine kinase
on admission 27, troponin 1.1.

FAMILY HISTORY:  No cardiac history.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Independent activities of daily living,
[**Hospital3 **], no tobacco use.  No drugs and no alcohol.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies, however, there is a
question of an allergy to Spironolactone which may induce
hyperkalemia, so use with caution.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Toprol XL 25 mg p.o. q.d., Zocor
20 mg p.o. q.d., Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d., Digoxin 0.125 mg
p.o. q.d., Lasix 160 mg p.o. b.i.d., Zestril 5 mg p.o. q.d.,
Allopurinol 200 mg p.o. q.d.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiac - A.  Pump; the patient was
admitted to the Coronary Care Unit for inotropic support plus
tailored diuresis.  Initially, she was on a Dopamine drip at
5 mcg/kg/min.  She was given Metolazone dose, and started on
Natrecor drip.  She was given 160 mg intravenous bolus of
Lasix (had an additional 100 mg intravenously of Lasix in the
Emergency Department), followed by a Lasix drip at 20 mg/hr.
Swan-Ganz monitoring was not obtained on this admission
secondary to difficult access.  The patient responded well to
the aforementioned regimen, was weaned off of Dopamine and
diuresed to her dry weight of 149 lbs.  Her usual ACE
inhibitor, Beta blocker, and Digoxin were slowly reinstituted
as her blood pressure tolerated.  Her Lasix was reinstituted
at 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. to be titrated up at rehabilitation (her
usual dose was 160 p.o. b.i.d.).  Transthoracic
echocardiogram was obtained on [**2113-10-2**].  The ejection
fraction was 45 to 50%.  She had a markedly dilated LA and a
moderately dilated RA.  The left ventricular systolic
function was mildly depressed.  Inferior akinesis was
present.  Right ventricle was mildly dilated, there was mild
aortic stenosis.  3+ mitral regurgitation, 3+ tricuspid
regurgitation, severe PA systolic hypertension.  These
findings were unchanged since her echocardiogram on [**2113-6-13**].  Of note, while her heart failure exacerbation this
admission was enlarged in part due to the fine balance
between diastolic dysfunction and end stage valvular disease,
the high salt diet at her [**Hospital3 **] facility may also
be a precipitant.  B.  Valves; 3+ tricuspid regurgitation, 3+
mitral regurgitation.  The patient refuses surgery.  C.
Rhythm; the patient has chronic paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation for at least two years.  Coumadin was held
initially secondary to a supratherapeutic INR, then secondary
to a gastrointestinal bleed (see below).  Telemetry was
notable for a sinus rhythm with paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation, and several runs of supraventricular
tachycardias with aberrancy.  The patient was treated shortly
with Amiodarone, however, it was not continued secondary to
fear of pulmonary and renal consequences in a patient with
our baseline deficits regarding those organs.  Digoxin was
continued this admission.  Cardioversion was deferred as the
patient was Do-Not-Resuscitate/Do-Not-Intubate and a
transesophageal echocardiogram was not an option and
deferred.  D.  Ischemia; Creatinine kinases on admission were
77.  The patient has a known coronary artery disease, status
post coronary artery bypass graft.  There was no evidence of
ischemia on this admission.  Aspirin was held secondary to
gastrointestinal bleeding (see below); Lipitor was continued
on this admission.

2.  Pulmonary - The patient has chronic hypoxemia (likely
baseline pAO2 in the 60s), on 2 liters of home oxygen,
restricted lung defect, and lung carcinoma, status post lung
resection.  She is likely a carbon dioxide retainer as well
and worsened mental status was noted in the setting of carbon
dioxide retention.  Oxygen saturations were roughly
maintained at 90 to 94% which should be her baseline on 2
liters of nasal cannula.

3.  Renal - The patient presented with a creatinine of 3.0
and left with a c