Admission Date:  [**2155-3-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2128-3-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2115-5-15**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath and chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 39 year-old
female with a history of AIDS, last CD4 count was 6, history
of multiple opportunistic infections including PCP times
four, thrush, CMV retinitis, CMV colitis, also history of
asthma presenting with increased shortness of breath and
chest pain recently discharged from [**Hospital6 15291**] with PCP on unclear antibiotics.  Self discontinued
the antibiotics after three to four days secondary to the
patient being too busy.  She developed progressively worse
shortness of breath and sent to the Emergency Department for
evaluation by the visiting nurse.  She had subjective fevers
or chills, night sweats at home, plus exertional dyspnea,
plus cough with white sputum.  No antiviral treatment for
approximately seven years per report from the patient.
Positive right eye blurriness.  Left eye down vision.
Positive fatigue.  Positive odynophagia/dysphagia, positive
chest pain with breathing similar to past episodes of PCP.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She has no abdominal pain, nausea,
vomiting, chronic diarrhea has improved.  No hematemesis.  No
melena.  No bright red blood per rectum.  No dysuria.  No
urgency, no infrequency.  She has a history of homelessness.
No intravenous drug use.  Contracted HIV from intravenous
drug abusing heterosexual partner.

In the Emergency Department the patient was temperature was
101.6.  Blood pressure 110/91.  Heart rate 119.  Respiratory
rate 32.  99% on presentation complaining of shortness of
breath, received Albuterol/Atrovent nebulizers times three.
Respiratory rate of 45 with stable O2 sats.  She was given
Tylenol, Trimethoprim 400 mg po times one, Motrin 600 mg po,
Ativan 0.5 mg po, Dapsone 100 mg po times one.  Chest x-ray
shows positive for bilateral patchy infiltrates, Solu-Medrol
80 mg intravenous times one and intravenous normal saline
times two liters.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  AIDS with a CD4 count on [**2154-1-23**] of 6.
2.  PCP.
3.  CMV thrush.
4.  CMV retinitis.
5.  CMV colitis.
6.  Asthma, no intubations.
7.  Has used oral steroids.
8.  Chronic diarrhea.
9.  Diabetes.

ALLERGIES:  Bactrim.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Four cigarettes a day for many years.
Occasional social alcohol.  She lives with two children ages
15 and 16 unemployed.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

MEDICATIONS:  Denies any current home medications.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 97.3.  Blood
pressure 120/70.  Heart rate 114.  Respiratory rate 32.  She
is 63% on 4 liters to 82% on 100% nonrebreather.  She is a
middle aged woman in acute respiratory distress.  HEENT
pupils nonreactive, sluggish.  No scleral icterus.  No oral
thus visualized.  Heart tachycardic.  S1 and S2.  No murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  Lungs diffuse scattered rhonchi, no
crackles, up tactile fremitus, increased E to A changes,
positive accessory muscle use and positive paradoxical
breathing.  Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended.  Bowel
sounds positive.  Positive costovertebral angle tenderness.
Extremities warm and no edema.  2+ distal pulses.
Neurological anxious, answering questions appropriately.

LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 1.9,
hematocrit 29.2, platelets 231, NA 137, K 4.0, CO 105, CO2
25, BUN 15, creatinine 0.6, glucose 215.  Tox screen was
negative.  Initial blood cultures were negative.  Initial
blood gas showed 7.33/57/39 with a lactate of 2.8.  A repeat
arterial blood gas showed 7.32/28/49, lactate of 3.1.  She
had a granulocyte count of 1370.  Chest x-ray showed heart
within normal limits, hilar contours unremarkable.  Pulmonary
vascular normal appearing, no apparent redistribution.
Bilateral patchy infiltrates in right and left lung fields.
No pleural effusions, patchy infiltrates in both lower lobes
predominantly.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Infectious disease:  The patient has
advanced HIV.  She has not been treated for many years and
has had multiple complications.  She is coming in acute
respiratory distress with a recent diagnosis of PCP, [**Name10 (NameIs) 6643**]
was inadequately treated.  She is allergic to Bactrim and so
she was started on Primaquine and Prednisone and Clindamycin
with little improvement.  Her respiratory status continued to
worsen and she continued to spike fevers.  She was switched
to Pentamidine and Prednisone later on admission again
without significant improvement in respiratory status.  A
chest CT Was performed, which showed diffuse severe
parenchymal lung disease with minimal uninvolved lung thus
explaining the patient's significant respiratory distress
even at rest.  She continued to spike fevers on the
Primaquine and Prednisone, so she was started empirically on
Levofloxacin and Zosyn and for a short time Vancomycin.  The
patient continued to worsen on these medications and spike
fevers.  She was also  on Azithromycin q week, Fluconazole q
day for suspected thrush.  The Azithromycin is her [**Doctor First Name **]
prophylaxis and Valacylcovir for CMV prophylaxis.  All
cultures remained negative throughout hospitalization
including blood, urine and myolytic cultures.  She had no
meningeal signs or mental status changes during the
hospitalization.

It is unclear what infectious [**Doctor Last Name 360**] or agents were
responsible for the patient's continuing deleterious course,
however it was felt by infectious disease consult as well as
the medical team that PCP alone was most probably not
responsible as she should have been receiving adequate
therapy with the Pentamidine and steroids.  As the clinical
course progressed it became clear that the patient was very
unlikely to recover from this infectious exacerbation of her
AIDS and that life extension and comfort were becoming
mutually exclusive goals.  After a long talk with the family
it was decided that comfort should be the goal given the
relapsing course of her illness and on [**2155-3-17**]
antibiotics were discontinued.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient has a history of asthma.  She was
put on Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers.  However, her
respiratory status did not improve much as per infectious
disease.  A CT of the chest as mentioned before showed
massive infiltration of the lung consistent with PCP
pneumonia making oxygen saturation with noninvasive
ventilation to an adequate degree largely impossible.  Due to
the patient's preferences the patient was DNR/DNI throughout
hospitalization and as our ability to adequately oxygenate
her noninvasively increase, she was made CMO.

3.  Cardiovascular:  This patient was hypotension
sporadically throughout the hospitalization.  She was able to
rebound with normal saline boluses.  She never received
pressures.  Cardiovascularly she was stable throughout
hospitalization.

4.  Endocrine:  She has a history of diabetes.  She was kept
on regular insulin sliding scale.

5.  FEN:  she was kept on a house diet and lytes were
followed.

6.  Prophylaxis:  She received PPI plus subcutaneous heparin,
plus Pneumoboots.

7.  Communication:  Family and the medical team met on a
regular basis.  The family was very involved in the patient's
care and thus were very understanding when it came to the
point that the medical team felt we were unable to make
significant gains in this patient's condition.

The patient is still in the MICU at the time of dictation,
but given CMO status is expected to pass away shortly.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  HIV.
2.  AIDS.
3.  PCP [**Name Initial (PRE) 1064**].
4.  Fever of unknown origin.
5.  Respiratory distress.
6.  Diabetes.

Dictation will be updated with patient's disposition when
this is known further.






                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 968**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 18032**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2155-3-18**]  08:15
T:  [**2155-3-18**]  08:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 18244**]
