Admission Date:  [**2178-4-9**]       Discharge Date:  [**2178-4-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2123-7-9**]       Sex:  F

Service:  GENERAL SURGERY

ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:  Rapid atrial fibrillation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Rapid atrial fibrillation.
2.  Hemoperitoneum secondary to bleeding of the vaginal cuff
status post hysterectomy.
3.  Urinary tract infection.

PROCEDURES DURING ADMISSION:  Exploration and evacuation of a
hemoperitoneum and oversewing of the left aspect of the
vaginal cuff on [**4-16**].

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54-year-old
female with a history of rheumatic heart disease with
valvular dysfunction, coronary artery disease, status post
myocardial infarction secondary to atrial thrombus,
congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and anemia,
who presented with palpitations on [**2178-4-9**], and was
found to be in rapid atrial fibrillation.  The patient was
rate controlled with beta-blockers and started on intravenous
Heparin considering the fact that it was unknown whether she
had been on her Coumadin at home, and her INR was
subtherapeutic.

Once the patient was stable from a cardiac standpoint, she
underwent exam under anesthesia and a total abdominal
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for fibroids
and pelvic pain and menorrhagia on [**2178-4-13**].

Postoperatively the patient was started on a Heparin drip.
On postoperative day #2, she was noted to be slightly
tachycardiac with good urine output with a slightly distended
abdomen and a hematocrit drop from 31 to 25 for which she was
given 3 U of packed red blood cells.  Her posttransfusion
hematocrit was 26.  The patient however became progressively
tachycardiac and oliguric, and on postoperative day #3, a CT
of the abdomen revealed an intraperitoneal hematoma with
portal venous air.  The patient continued to hemorrhage with
a hematocrit drop to 19 and became progressively
coagulopathic despite FFP.  General Surgery was consulted for
further care of this patient.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Rheumatic heart disease, moderate
MS, and trivial AS.  2.  Coronary artery disease status post
myocardial infarction secondary to atrial thrombus embolizing
to a coronary artery.  3.  Congestive heart failure.  4.
Atrial fibrillation.  5.  Depression.  6.  Gastritis.  7.
Menorrhagia and fibroids.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Coumadin, Aspirin, Zantac, Lasix,
..................., Risperdal, Ativan, Desipramine.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  On admission the patient was
generally in no apparent distress.  Vital signs:  She was
afebrile.  Heart rate was in the 110s, and she was in atrial
fibrillation.  Neck:  Supple.  Chest:  Clear with no crackles
or wheezes.  Heart:  Irregularly irregular.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended.  Rectal:  Guaiac negative.
Extremities:  Soft.  No clubbing, cyanosis,or edema.
Neurological:  She was neurologically intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count on admission was 8.3,
hematocrit 38.2; INR 1.3.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted on [**2178-4-9**],
and her atrial fibrillation was managed by the Medicine Team.
Once she was stable from that standpoint, she was taken to
the Operating Room for a total abdominal hysterectomy and
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

Postoperatively the patient became tachycardiac.  She dropped
her hematocrit despite being transfused 2 U packed red blood
cells.  CT scan of the abdomen revealed an intraperitoneal
hematoma with portal venous air.  She continued to hemorrhage
and became hemodynamically unstable.  General Surgery was
consulted, and she was taken to the Operating Room on [**2178-4-16**], for exploration and evacuation of the hematoma and
oversewing of the posterior aspect of the vaginal cuff.  The
patient tolerated the procedure well.  She was transferred to
the SICU intubated and sedated.

Her postoperative course in the Intensive Care Unit was
notable for several episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation.
She was cardioverted for the first time on [**4-18**], and then
went back into atrial fibrillation on [**4-20**] with
unsuccessful.  She was again cardioverted on [**4-22**] and
remained in sinus.

She underwent an echocardiogram on [**4-23**] which showed some
pulmonary hypertension.  Also of note, the patient's white
count was noted to be elevated, and she was pancultured.  Her
urine and sputum were positive for growth, and she was
started on Levofloxacin and Ceftazidime.  Otherwise her
Intensive Care Unit course was uneventful.  The patient was
eventually transferred to the floor on [**2178-4-27**].  Her
diet was advanced.  She was restarted on her Coumadin, and on
[**4-28**], postoperative days 15 and 12, the patient was
discharged home in stable condition.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Risperdal 2 mg p.o. q.d., Desipramine
100 mg p.o. q.d., Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d., Coumadin to be
dosed for an INR of [**12-28**], Aspirin, Toprol 75 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Amiodarone 400 mg t.i.d. x 7 days, then 400 mg b.i.d. x 7
days, then 400 mg q.d., Diltiazem 30 mg p.o. q.i.d.,
Metoprolol 75 mg p.o. t.i.d., Clonidine 2 mg patch once
q.week.

FOLLOW-UP:  She was told to follow-up with her cardiologist,
and she was also discharged with VNA for INR draws.





                DR [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] 02.365



Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 4985**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2178-5-11**]  14:19
T:  [**2178-5-11**]  14:33
JOB#:  [**Job Number 13331**]
