Admission Date:  [**2116-1-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2116-1-6**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84-year-old
female with a past medical history significant for
hypertension and diet-controlled diabetes mellitus who
presented from an outside hospital following a 3-day history
of shortness of breath.

At the outside hospital the patient was found to have an
irregular rhythm and pulmonary edema on chest x-ray.  A
workup showed a non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.  An
echocardiogram performed at the outside hospital showed an
ejection fraction of 35% to 40%.  On catheterization, the
patient was found to have 3-vessel disease; including left
main disease.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for further management.  A repeat cardiac
catheterization, and she was found to have a right iliac
dissection with thrombus.  A left femoral artery intra-aortic
balloon pump was placed for cardiac output support and
increased cardiac perfusion.  The patient was scheduled to
receive a coronary artery bypass graft.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history is significant
for)
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diet-controlled diabetes.
3.  Carotid stenosis with 100% occlusion in the right
internal carotid artery and less than 40% stenosis of the
left internal carotid artery (status post left carotid
endarterectomy in [**2115-4-13**]).
4.  Glaucoma.
5.  Rheumatoid arthritis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Outpatient medications included)
1.  Aspirin.
2.  Atenolol.
3.  Lisinopril.
4.  Xalatan.
5.  Timolol eyedrops.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  (From the outside hospital)
1.  Aspirin.
2.  Lisinopril.
3.  Metoprolol.
4.  Amiodarone.
5.  Latanoprost.
6.  Heparin drip.
7.  Nitroglycerin drip.
8.  Regular insulin sliding-scale.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone.  She is a retired
nurse.  She is widowed.  She has no children.  Her next of
[**Doctor First Name **] is her nephew [**Name (NI) **]. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 35763**] [**Known lastname 28989**]) who is also her Power
of Attorney.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed the patient was afebrile, her blood
pressure was 148/54 on an intra-aortic balloon pump, her
heart rate was 69, her respiratory rate was 20, and her
oxygen saturation was 99% on 3 liters via nasal cannula.  Her
physical examination was notable for a poor memory.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  The lungs were clear to auscultation.  Her lower
extremities revealed no edema, but were cold to the touch.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Pertinent
laboratories on admission revealed the patient's white blood
cell count was 12.8, her hematocrit was 47.5, and her
platelets were 255.  Her prothrombin time was 12.6, her
partial thromboplastin time was 30.6, and her INR was 1.1.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed
bradycardia at approximately 60 beats per minute.  Her axis
was shifted to the left at approximately -30 degrees.  She
had a wide QRS with a left bundle-branch block.

Cardiac catheterization revealed 3-vessel disease including a
unprotected left main artery.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted
for monitoring prior to coronary artery bypass graft.  An
intra-aortic balloon pump was placed to improve hemodynamics.
The patient remained hypertensive throughout the majority of
her hospitalization with systolic blood pressures as high as
190 to 200.

She was on beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, a nitroglycerin
drip, and a nitroprusside drip to help with her elevated
blood pressures.  The patient was also started on heparin to
prevent thrombosis from the right iliac dissection.  The
patient's platelets dropped, at which time heparin was
stopped and laboratories were sent for heparin-induced
thrombocytopenia antibodies.

A Hematology consultation was obtained.  They agreed with
stopping the heparin and starting argatroban.

On the morning of [**1-6**], the patient experienced a
hypotensive episode with a systolic blood pressure down to
the 50s associated with bradycardia down to the 40s.  The
patient was found to have a rhythm consistent with
bradycardia with ventricular escapes.  She spontaneously
reverted back to her usual rhythm.  Laboratories that morning
revealed an extremely elevated white blood cell count, liver
function tests abnormalities, and a anion gap metabolic
acidosis.

At approximately 11:53 a.m., the patient became bradycardic
to the 40s to 50s and then went into asystole.  A code was
called, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was started.  The
patient could not be resuscitated, and she was pronounced
dead at 12:13 p.m.  The family was notified, and an autopsy
was obtained with results pending.  Heparin dependent antibodies
returned negative.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
 1.  Coronary artery disease.
 2.  Non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
 3.  Possible sepsis.
 4.  Possible disseminated intravascular coagulation.
 5.  Hypertension.
 6.  Liver function tests abnormalities.
 7.  Carotid artery stenosis.
 8.  Glaucoma.
 9.  Diabetes.
10.  Rheumatoid arthritis.
11.  Metabolic acidosis.






                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5214**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info 44854**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2116-1-6**]  13:56
T:  [**2116-1-7**]  07:57
JOB#:  [**Job Number 44855**]


