Admission Date:  [**2109-3-14**]       Discharge Date:  [**2109-4-3**]


Service:  [**Hospital1 139**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Fevers.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84-year-old
female with a past medical history significant for Parkinson
disease with associated [**Last Name (un) 309**] body dementia and a long history
of tobacco abuse who was noted with fevers.

The patient was in her usual state of health until two weeks
prior to admission when she developed rhinorrhea.  The
patient and her daughter deny any other symptoms at that
time.

However, on the evening of [**2109-3-12**] the patient
reports that she developed pain in the right side of her
neck.  The following day, she had a temperature to 101 with
continued intermittent right-sided neck pain.  She was again
febrile on the morning of admission and called her primary
care physician for his advise.  He suggested that she report
to the Emergency Department for further evaluation.

In the Emergency Department, the patient's vital signs
revealed a temperature of 100 degrees Fahrenheit, her heart
rate was 75, her blood pressure was 93/46, her respiratory
rate was 18, and her oxygen saturation was 96% on room air.

A chest x-ray in the Emergency Department showed consistent
cardiomegaly.  An opacity in the right lower lobe with
probable right pleural effusion was identified.  There was no
pneumothorax.  The patient was started on levofloxacin for a
presumed community-acquired pneumonia.  Blood cultures were
obtained.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  On review of systems, the patient reports
that she has "usual" cough productive of scant white sputum.
She has had no recent dental work.  The patient denies ear
pain, tooth pain, sores in her mouth, a sore throat,
shortness of breath, chest pain, and diarrhea.  The patient
does report overall weakness for the last one and a half
prior to admission.  The patient denies sick contacts.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Parkinson disease with associated [**Last Name (un) 309**] body dementia.
The patient is currently not taking any medications because
of "bad reactions" in the past.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Deep venous thrombosis in [**2097**].
4.  Depression.
5.  A benign breast nodule by mammography in [**2105**].
6.  Osteoporosis.

ALLERGIES:
1.  PENICILLIN (which causes a rash).
2.  SINEMET (which causes dizziness).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Zestril 5 mg by mouth once per day.
2.  Zoloft 25 mg by mouth once per day.
3.  Multivitamin one tablet by mouth once per day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone in her own home.
Her daughter checks in with her frequently.  She no longer
drives but can accomplish her own activities of daily living.
She has an extremely supportive family.  She has a
65-pack-year smoking history.  The patient denies drugs.

FAMILY HISTORY:   The patient's mother died from a
cerebrovascular accident.  The patient's father died of heart
disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Examination on
admission revealed the patient's temperature was 98.8 degrees
Fahrenheit, her blood pressure was 128/70, her heart rate was
74, her respiratory rate was 20, and her oxygen saturation
was 95% on room air.  In general, alert and oriented.  She
was in no acute distress.  She was able to talk in complete
sentences comfortably without shortness of breath.  There was
an occasional cough.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.  The
pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.  The patient
was edentulous.  The mucous membranes were very dry.  No
lesion in the oropharynx.  The neck was supple.  There was no
tenderness to palpation.  There was no lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  First heart sounds and second heart sounds.
Pulmonary examination revealed decreased breath sounds
approximately halfway up the right lung.  Rare left lower
lobe crackles.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  There were positive bowel sounds.  There was
no hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremity examination revealed venous
stasis skin changes.  There was no clubbing, cyanosis, or
edema.  The dorsalis pedis pulses were 1+ bilaterally.
Neurologic examination revealed cranial nerves II through XII
were intact.  Strength was [**6-12**] in the upper and lower
extremities bilaterally.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed her white blood cell count was 26.2, her
hematocrit was 39.8, and her platelets were 264.
Differential revealed 87 neutrophils, 5 bands, 0 lymphocytes,
7 monocytes, 0 eosinophils, 0 basophils, and 0 atypical
cells.   Chemistry-7 revealed her sodium was 142, potassium
was 3.5, chloride was 101, bicarbonate was 27, blood urea
nitrogen was 17, creatinine was 0.9, and her blood glucose
was 125.  Her calcium was 10.4, her phosphorous was 2.4, and
her magnesium was 1.8.  Her lactate was 2.  Her albumin was
3.9.  Urinalysis revealed 1.019 specific gravity, moderate
blood, pH was 6.5, 0 to 2 red blood cells, and a few
bacteria.  Urine culture was pending.  Blood culture was
pending.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  PULMONARY ISSUES:  Within the first few days of her
admission, the patient was treated with levofloxacin for a
presumed community-acquired pneumonia.  However, despite
antibiotic treatment, the patient's white blood cell count
remained elevated in the low 20s.  It did trend down slightly
during this time period.

Throughout the first few days of her admission, the patient
denied any shortness of breath and had an oxygen saturation
in the mid 90s on room air.

On [**2109-3-18**], a posterior/anterior and lateral chest
x-ray was obtained to re-evaluate the patient's presumed
pneumonia.  In comparison to the admission film, the right
lower lobe opacity had increased in size and intensity.
There was a probable right pleural effusion.  There was also
slightly more prominent pulmonary vessels on the right which
were considered to be positional.  The left lung was
relatively clear at that time with minor atelectasis at the
base.

The following day (on [**2109-3-19**]), a chest computed
tomography was obtained to better visualize the patient's
lungs.  This showed a right loculated pleural effusion with
parietal pleural enhancement and several small gas
reflections.  In addition, there was right lower lobe
atelectasis and consolidation and left upper lobe
ground-glass opacities consistent with a second infectious
process.

At this time, a Pulmonary Service consultation was obtained.
Antibiotics were changed to vancomycin and ceftazidime.  The
patient was taken to Interventional Pulmonary for placement
of a chest tube on the right to drain the loculated effusion.
Following placement of the chest tube, the patient had a
small amount of hemoptysis in Interventional Pulmonology.  In
addition, her oxygen saturation dropped to 88% on 3 liters
via nasal cannula.  The patient was placed on 100%
nonrebreather with an increase in oxygen saturations to 96%.
At that time, the patient was transferred to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for further care.

In the Intensive Care Unit, the patient's oxygen requirement
rapidly decreased.  However, the chest tube did not drain the
pleural fluid as expected.  It was found to not be in a
sufficient pocket of pleural fluid.  Cardiothoracic Surgery
was consulted, but the patient and her family wished to avoid
surgery at that time.

Therefore, on [**2109-3-22**], the patient was called out
to the floor for further treatment with antibiotics.  Her
chest tube was removed.  The patient was treated broadly with
ceftazidime, vancomycin, and metronidazole.

A long discussion was held with the patient and her family
regarding the slim possibility of cure of her loculated
infection with antibiotics alone.  However, they continued to
desire to avoid invasive procedures.  They were willing for a
pigtail catheter to be placed in Interventional Radiology to
see if it could drain some of her pleural effusion, and this
was done on [**2109-3-23**].  Fluid continued to drain from
the pigtail catheter over the next several days.  During this
time, the patient's white bl