Admission Date:  [**2123-11-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2123-11-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2048-8-16**]       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Status post congestive heart failure
exacerbation requiring intubation.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 75-year-old Caucasian
male with a history of congestive heart failure and moderate
to severe mitral regurgitation with worsening dyspnea on
exertion over the past week.  At baseline the patient climbs
24 stairs, but at that time could not complete this test.  He
was seen by his primary care physician on the morning of
admission with change from physical exam on week prior to
admission including increasing dyspnea and crackles.  At this
time, he was sent to the Emergency Department for further
evaluation.

He was sent to the East for further evaluation and
management.  He was given Lasix 40 mg IV x 1 and 20 mg IV x
3, Morphine 2 mg IV x 4, Aspirin, Lopressor 2.5 mg p.o. x 1,
and 5 mg IV x 2, and 1 sublingual Nitroglycerin.  Per note,
the patient put out 1200 cc in one hour.  Systolic blood
pressure decreased to 80 but was responsive to fluid bolus.
The patient became increasingly dyspneic.  He was intubated
for mechanical ventilation and transferred to the SICU/PACU
for further observation.  It was at this time that he was
transferred over to the West to the CCU for management.

In the CCU he was agitated and given 2 mg of IV Ativan x 2
and placed on Propofol drip.  His blood pressure decreased to
57/33 and responded poorly to IV bolus.  At this time, he was
placed on Dopamine drip with good result.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Atrial fibrillation.  2.
Congestive heart failure with echocardiogram on [**2123-1-21**], showing mild regional left ventricular systolic
dysfunction, hypokinesis of the distal septum and apex, mild
AS, moderate to severe mitral regurgitation, and mild
pulmonary artery hypertension.  3.  Diabetes mellitus with
retinopathy and blindness, status post laser vitrectomy.  4.
Obesity.  5.  Blindness.  6.  Hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Glucophage 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d., Prinivil 30 mg p.o. q.d.,
Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for father who had a myocardial
infarction and was obese.  Mother had cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has significant a smoking and
alcohol history; however, he quit smoking approximately three
years ago and quit alcohol approximately five years ago.  He
is retired and lives at home alone.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  He was intubated and
sedated.  HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.
Cardiovascular:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  No rubs or
gallops.  There was a 3 out of 6 systolic murmur best heard
at the right upper sternal border and at the apex.  Lungs:
There were crackles bilaterally on anterior exam.  Abdomen:
Normoactive bowel sounds.  Nontender and nondistended.
Extremities:  Trace pretibial edema, right more than left.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count 5.2, hematocrit
30.9, platelet count 189,000, differential with 75.5%
neutrophils, 15.5% lymphocytes, 5.5% monocytes, 2.5%
eosinophils, 0.9% basophils; PT on admission 12.3, PTT 27.2,
INR 1.1; CHEM7 revealed a sodium of 141, potassium 5.9,
chloride 108, bicarb 22, BUN 19, creatinine 1.1, blood sugar
157; urinalysis was negative with 30 proteins, 0-2 white
blood cells, few bacteria, 0-2 epis; CK #1 was 44, troponin
less than 0.3, CK #2 was 40, MB 3, troponin less than 0.3;
ALT 28, AST 37, alkaline phosphatase 93, total bilirubin 0.4,
total protein 6.8, albumin 3.6, ......... 3.2, calcium 9,
lactate 3.7; ABG prior to intubation was 7.23, 52, 72, ABG
shortly after intubation was 7.31, 47, 70.

Chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure with bilateral
pleural effusions.  Electrocardiogram showed ST depressions
and T-wave inversions in leads I and AVL, otherwise normal
sinus with left axis, heart rate 76, QS waves in V1-V3
suggesting possible old anterior myocardial infarction.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  As stated above the patient was transferred
to CCU for further observation and management.  He continued
to diurese well from the Lasix given to him earlier that day.
That night, central line access was attempted at the left
subclavian right IJ and left femoral areas.  Right femoral
access was finally completed.  Echocardiogram was completed
that night showing drastically reduced ejection fraction
around 20% and mild aortic stenosis.  He remained on Dopamine
throughout the night until the following morning.

1.  Coronary artery disease:  The patient ruled out for
myocardial infarction by serial CKs and flat troponins.  He
was placed on telemetry and started on Heparin; however,
after he ruled out for myocardial infarction, Heparin was
discontinued.  He was continued on his Aspirin.
The next morning, he received cardiac catheterization which
showed right atrial pressures of 13, right ventricular
pressure 50/12, pulmonary artery pressure 50/23, pulmonary
wedge 16, cardiac index 3, SVR [**2068**], PVR 427.  There was
three-vessel disease and a right dominant system.  The left
main was angiographically normal.  Left anterior descending
was totally occluded proximally with severely diffusely
disease distal vessel filling of the left circumflex and D1
collaterals.  The left circumflex had moderate diffuse
proximal disease, moderate diffuse marginal disease.  The
right coronary artery had a 70% ostial lesion with moderate
diffuse proximal ........... disease, 70% ostial posterior
descending artery stenosis, with sequential 90% stenosis
beyond the posterior descending artery.  There was also mild
aortic stenosis as noted from previous echocardiogram with
moderate left ventricular diastolic dysfunction.

During the intervening days, the patient was noted placed on
beta-blockers secondary to his blood pressure.  Instead, it
was felt that Amiodarone would have some beta-blocking
properties.  He was started on Lipitor on [**2123-11-9**],
with lipid panel pending.

From the catheterization results, it was determined that
medical management would be optimal.  CT Surgery was
consulted but did not want to operate at this time.

2.  Pump:  The patient underwent another echocardiogram on
the morning of [**2123-11-4**], showing overall left
ventricular systolic function severely depressed with severe
global left ventricular hypokinesis.  The following resting
regional left ventricular wall motion abnormalities were
seen:  Basal anterior hypokinesis, mid anterior hypokinesis,
basal anteroseptal hypokinesis, mid anteroseptal hypokinesis,
basal intraseptal hypokinesis, mid intraseptal hypokinesis,
basal inferior hypokinesis, mid inferior hypokinesis, mid
inferolateral hypokinesis, basal anterolateral hypokinesis,
mid anterolateral hypokinesis, anterior apex hypokinesis,
septal apex hypokinesis, inferior apex hypokinesis, lateral
apex hypokinesis, and apical hypokinesis.  Right ventricular
wall thickness was normal, as well as right ventricular
systolic function.  There was moderate aortic stenosis, 2+
mitral regurgitation, and no pericardial effusion.  The
mitral regurgitation was slightly less than in the study as
compared to previous studies from [**2122-12-28**].  Ejection
fraction was approximately 20%.

The patient continued to require Dopamine until the following
morning.  At that point, he was weaned off Dopamine and back
on his normal dose of Prinivil 30 mg p.o. q.d.; however, he
could not maintain normal blood pressure with this dose of
ACE inhibitor, and he was switched at this time to Captopril

6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d.  Unfortunately he could not maintain
blood pressure on this ACE inhibitor as well, and this was
discontinued.

The patient required intermittent use of pressors on the
morning of [**2123-11-6**]; however, this was weaned off
without difficulties.  The patient was finally placed back on
Captopril, and the dose was weaned up as tolerated.  The dose
at this time is 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.  The patient was started on
Digoxin on [**2123-11-7**], and is now on a dose of 0.125
mg p.o. q.o.d.

3.  Vascular:  The patient has a history of hypertension;
however, at this time, the hyp