Admission Date:  [**2183-1-29**]       Death Date:  [**2183-2-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2112-2-4**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MICU-B

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Transferred for management of non-ST
segment elevation myocardial infarction and acute renal
failure.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 70-year-old man
admitted nine days prior to presentation to an outside after
awaking to go to the bathroom and becoming short of breath
and diaphoretic.  The patient also states that he experienced
chest tightness at that time.  He states that he had begun a
course of prednisone for acute exacerbation of chronic
bronchitis several days prior to presentation without relief.

On presentation to the outside hospital, he was found to have
elevated level of troponin and lateral ST segment depressions
(Of note, there was no prior electrocardiogram for
comparison.).  Chest x-ray at the outside hospital also was
consistent with congestive heart failure.  He was initially
treated with antibiotics, steroids, nebulizers, as well as
diuresis.

His hospital course was complicated by development of atrial
fibrillation and occasional episodes of bradycardia
attributed to his medications.  He required a temporary
pacing wire that was removed prior to transfer to the [**Hospital6 1760**].

The remainder of his hospital course was significant for
worsening renal failure, as well as the detection of
gram-positive cocci in a blood culture (Of note, this
organism was later identified as vancomycin resistant
enterococcus.).  He received one dose of vancomycin, 4 units
of packed red blood cells, 1 unit of fresh frozen plasma, and
was transferred to the [**Hospital6 256**]
for further care.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient denied current complaints,
although acknowledges his breathing is more labored than it
is at baseline.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Status post cerebrovascular
accident in [**2167**] with left hemiparesis, 2) Paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation (as described above and as documented by his
wife), 3) Benign prostatic hyperplasia, 4) Chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, 5) Coronary artery disease
(There are no records of his coronary artery disease in our
hospital.), 6) Congestive heart failure with a reported
ejection fraction of 45%, 7) Anemia of chronic disease.

MEDICATIONS:  1) warfarin (dose unknown at time of transfer),
2) furosemide 20 mg qd, 3) Zaroxolyn 2.5 mg qd, 4) digoxin
0.25 mg qd, 5) lisinopril 20 mg qd, 6) Flomax 0.4 mg qd, 7)
multivitamin 1 tab qd, 8) colace, 9) calcium, magnesium, zinc
supplements, 10) Combivent MDI 2 puffs [**Hospital1 **], 11) Flovent MDI 2
puffs [**Hospital1 **], 12) nebulized albuterol prn.

ALLERGIES:  The patient develops a rash to ceftriaxone and
sulfur-containing medicines.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  1) dexamethasone 60 mg [**Hospital1 **], 2)
metoprolol IV prn, 3) Nitroglycerin drip at 30, 4)
aspirin--dose unknown, 5) nystatin--dose unknown, 6)
Atorvastatin--dose unknown, 7) Levofloxacin 250 mg q 48 h IV,
8) vancomycin 1 gm q 24 h.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His father died of a brain tumor, and his
mother died of a stroke.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is married.  His wife is his healthcare
proxy.  The patient has a 15-pack year history of tobacco
usage.  He consumed two beers per week prior to his stroke
and approximately one glass of wine per week.  He has five
children.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  He was a well-developed, chronically
ill-appearing white man in mild respiratory distress.
Vital signs:  Temperature not recorded, heart rate 135, blood
pressure 123/73, respiratory rate 30, oxygen saturation 99%
on 4 liters nasal cannula.
HEENT:  NCAT, PERRL from 4 mm to 2 mm, extraocular movements
intact without nystagmus, anicteric, normal sclerae, dry
mucous membranes, clear oropharynx.
Neck:  Jugulovenous pressure was elevated to the level of the
mandible.  He had a well-healed right internal jugular site
scab approximately 2 mm in diameter.
Chest:  He had a macular rash over his sternum (attributed to
a dose of ceftriaxone received in the outside hospital).  He
had left lower lobe crackles and bronchovesicular breath
sounds throughout the remaining lung fields.
Heart:  Irregular, tachycardic, PMI was displaced laterally,
there was a normal S1 and S2, no extra sounds were
appreciated.
Abdomen:  Soft, normoactive bowel sounds, not tender, not
distended, liver edge and spleen were not palpable.
Extremities:  He had trace edema in both feet, there was no
rash, there was no clubbing, there was no cyanosis.
Neurologic exam:  Significant for left hemiparesis, otherwise
unremarkable.

LABORATORY EVALUATION AT OUTSIDE HOSPITAL:  White blood cell
count 32, hematocrit 37, platelets 178, INR 1.3, sodium 150,
potassium 4.9, chloride 121, bicarbonate 19, blood urea
nitrogen 133, creatinine 2.8, glucose 153.  Peak troponin 10.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  Atrial fibrillation at 100 beats per
minute, borderline left atrial abnormality without evidence
of ventricular hypertrophy.  He had poor R wave progression.
No Q waves were present.  There was 1.5 mm ST segment
depression with T wave inversions in limb leads I and L, as
well as precordial lead VI.

CHEST X-RAY:  Revealed left lower lobe consolidation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted directly to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.  Central venous access was
reestablished in the right internal jugular vein.  The
patient was continued on the medications administered at the
outside hospital until the gram-positive cocci in his blood
culture were identified as vancomycin resistant enterococcal
species, at which time his antibiotic was switched to
Linezolid.  Of note, the remainder of the [**Hospital 228**] hospital
course was marked by progressive thrombocytopenia attributed
to this medication.

The patient became progressively hypoxic and was electively
intubated on the second day of the hospital course.  He then
underwent computed tomography of the chest which revealed
extensive mediastinal lymphadenopathy.  Follow-up
bronchoscopy showed a moderate amount of blood present in
both lungs, most prominently in the left upper lobe.  There
were no endobronchial lesions; however, there was narrowing
of the left lower lobe bronchus due to extrinsic compression
by the lymph nodes described above.

The patient became progressively hypoxic, and his hypoxia was
attributed to his worsening acute renal failure, congestive
heart failure, and the lung findings described above.  The
patient's family elected to have him extubated and to pursue
comfort measures only.  He expired on [**2183-2-3**].  His
family declined postmortem examination.




                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5837**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8285**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 7102**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2183-3-10**]  14:35
T:  [**2183-3-10**]  13:36
JOB#:  [**Job Number 49553**]
