Admission Date:  [**2178-2-25**]     Discharge Date:  [**2178-3-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2124-1-2**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 59 year-old
female with a past medical history of hypertension and
diabetes presenting to the Emergency Department with sudden
onset of shortness of breath.  History is limited as the
patient was intubated at the time of assessment.  Per EMS
report the patient had labored breathing at a rate of 60.
She denies chest pain.  Initial O2 sat was 62 to 63% and was
placed on 100% nonrebreather mask.  On arrival to the
Emergency Department the patient was found to be in PEA
arrest.  The patient was intubated.  Epinephrine and atropine
were administered.  O2 sats in the 50 to 55% range.  Rose to
80% following intubation and Lasix.  The patient then became
tachycardic with blood pressure variable and peripheral O2
sat labile from 69 to 75%.  Initial arterial blood gas was
6.87/108/58.  This had minimal improvement on 100% FIO2.
Electrocardiogram revealed Q waves in V1, V2 and V3.  Chest
x-ray revealed bilateral infiltrates with air bronchograms.
CT chest was negative for pulmonary emboli and positive for
pulmonary edema.  She was transferred to the MICU for further
management.  Bedside cardiac echocardiogram revealed overall
preserved systolic function, mild mitral regurgitation, no
additional valve impairment.  Oxygen saturations rose to 95
to 100% on FIO2 after significant amount of time with no
further intervention.  A left brachial A line was placed.  On
speaking to the family she had been complaining of wheezing
and shortness of breath and lower extremity leg
discoloration.  No mention of chest pain.  No fevers or
chills.  The patient reportedly minimized symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diabetes type 2.
3.  Question of cardiac function.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Positive for tobacco.  Unable to obtain
further information.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission the patient was intubated
and sedated, obese.  HEENT pupils are equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  Heart regular rate and
rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Unable to assess JVD.
Lungs coarse breath sounds bilaterally.  Abdomen obese, soft.
Extremities no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  No edema.  Skin
was dry.

LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 9.7,
hematocrit 37.8, platelets 365, NA 136, K 3.5, CL 99, CO2 20,
BUN 17, creatinine 1.0, glucose 432.  CK 154, troponin of
less then 0.3.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Pulmonary:  The patient remained
intubated throughout admission.  She was treated for a
suspected community acquired pneumonia, which is felt to be
the initiating event in this unfortunate situation.  She was
put on Zosyn and Azithromycin intravenous and these were
continued throughout the hospitalization.  She was kept for
the initial hospitalization on AC ventilation, which she
maintained well.  On [**2178-3-7**] she was switched to pressure
support plus CPAP, which she tolerated well.  She was
spontaneously breathing at a rate between 12 and 26 and
required a PEEP of 10 and pressure support of 15 with FIO2
between 40 and 60%.  She was felt to have a pneumonia
complicated by adult respiratory distress syndrome, which is
what to felt has limited initial oxygenation early in the
hospitalization.  Adult respiratory distress syndrome
improved over the course of hospitalization as expected.
There was also felt to be a component of pulmonary edema and
diuresis was initiated toward the end of hospitalization.

2.  Neurological:  The patient had been hypoxic as found by
the EMS and then suffered a PEA arrest followed by prolonged
hypoxia secondary to adult respiratory distress syndrome in
light of intubation.  Further she suffered seizure activity
post recovery from PEA arrest, felt to be indicative of
significant hypoxic brain injury.  Neurology followed and the
patient was placed on electroencephalogram.  She was loaded
with phos phenytoin and was seizure free for the first week
of admission.  She did have a recurrence of some minor
seizure activity late in the hospitalization, which was
treated with a temporary Ativan drip until phenytoin levels
were returned to a therapeutic range.  Neurology consult
service from the very beginning felt that the likely extent
of her brain injury was severe and that meaningful recovery
was very unlikely.  Off sedation the patient displayed only
brain stem activity with spontaneous blink, slow ocular
response, slow light reflex, positive gag and positive
withdraw to pain for all four limbs. She displayed no other
spontaneous movement, no response to sound.  It was this poor
neurologic prognosis, which eventually led the family to
decide on the patient being changed to CMO.

3.  Cardiovascular:  Patient after recovering from her PEA
arrest was hypertensive and tachycardic.  She was started on
Captopril 75 mg t.i.d. and Lopressor 25 mg po b.i.d. with
good control of both tachycardia and hypertension.  These
were continued until the patient was extubated.  The patient
ruled out for myocardial infarction.  No other cardiovascular
issues.

4.  Infectious disease:  The patient remained afebrile
throughout hospitalization.  She was continued on
Azithromycin/Zosyn for presumed community acquired pneumonia.
 Blood cultures were negative throughout hospitalization.

5. Renal/FEN:  Renal function was stable throughout
hospitalization.  The patient was maintained on intravenous
fluids and tube feeds and given Lasix as necessary.

5.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was maintained on
intravenous PPI.  She had some elevation in liver enzymes,
which was felt to be secondary to hypotension and shock liver
in the setting of PEA.  There were no acute gastrointestinal
issues during the hospitalization.

6.  Prophylaxis:  She was kept on subcutaneous heparin,
Pneumoboots and intravenous PPI throughout hospitalization.

DISPOSITION:  Pending, multiple family discussions with MICU
team and neurology.  The family decided that the patient
would not have wanted her life to be prolonged on a
ventilator in this situation.  On [**2178-3-9**] she was extubated
and plans were made for organ harvest for organ donation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Community acquired pneumonia.
2.  Pulmonary edema.
3.  Adult respiratory distress syndrome.
4.  PEA arrest.
5.  Seizures.
6.  Hypoxic severe brain injury.
7.  Hypertension.
8.  Diabetes.

The patient was extubated on [**2178-3-9**].






                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 968**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 18032**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2178-3-9**]  08:20
T:  [**2178-3-9**]  10:02
JOB#:  [**Job Number 99888**]
