Admission Date: [**2188-8-12**]        Discharge Date: [**2188-8-18**]

Date of Birth:  [**2137-4-14**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 51-year-old gentleman
with a history of hypertension who presented to the
Cardiology Service with decreased exercise tolerance with
also some episodes of hemoptysis.  Workup included cardiac
catheterization which, by report, showed normal coronary
arteries and LV function.  Earlier this year, he subsequently
developed pulmonary edema and repeat cardiac catheterization
was again negative.  CTA of the chest was also negative and
EGD showed a gastric ulcer.  He had an echocardiogram at an
outpatient hospital in [**Month (only) **] of this year which showed normal
LV function but some diastolic dysfunction and mild LVH.  He
for no reasons had a rectal biopsy at that institution which
showed some faint apple green virus  concerning for
amyloidosis.  He was admitted for workup of this question of
infiltrative restrictive cardiomyopathy with pulmonary
hypertension given the progressive and rapid decline in his
clinical status.

As stated before, he was admitted and workup was to include
catheterization with cardiac biopsy.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Mild hypertension.
2. Colitis.
3. History of gastric ulcer.


PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Status post inguinal hernia repair.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.


ALLERGIES:  the patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married, smoked two pack
years in the distant past, and drinks one to two glasses of
wine per night.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The initial physical examination
revealed that the patient was afebrile.  The vital signs were
within normal limits.  He was an awake, alert, male in no
apparent distress.  HEENT:  The pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  JVD was 10 cm.  Pulmonary:  Bibasilar
crackles.  No wheezes.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and
rhythm.  S1, S2, no murmurs.  Extremities:  Warm with 2+
distal pulses.  No edema.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended, with positive bowel sounds.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Mr. [**Known lastname 95715**] was admitted with the
diagnosis of progressive dyspnea on exertion with hemoptysis
concerning for infiltrative cardiomyopathy.  He had the
appropriate laboratories done to rule out restrictive disease
and was sent to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory on
hospital day number two for a catheterization and possible
intercardiac biopsy.  In the Catheterization Laboratory,
initial catheterization revealed elevated left heart filling
pressures with decreased cardiac output at baseline.
Following ventriculography, the patient had some nausea,
became hypotensive despite treatment with Atropine, dopamine,
and arrested despite receiving epinephrine and Vasopressin,
and then an intra-aortic balloon pump, his arterial pressure
was not restored.  He had a multiple V-fib arrest also and
emergency CT Surgery consultation was called and he was
placed on ECMO which brought his cardiac index up to about
2.5 liters per minute.  Angio performed after he was
stabilized showed an open LAD and D1 and the balloon pump was
then reinserted.  He was further shown to have 1+ MR, global
hypokinesis with an EF of around 40 percent and prior
angiography showed a total occlusion of the LAD.

After successful angioplasty, he was transferred to the CSRU
in critical condition.  The Heart Failure Team closely
followed the patient during his hospitalization and he was
considered for transplantation.  However, his question of
amyloidosis needed to be resolved and have systemic amyloid
ruled out before he would be a candidate.  Post
catheterization, he was noted to be in a slow ventricular
tachycardia.  He was seen by the EP Service and bolused with
lidocaine and subsequently went into a junctional rhythm.  He
was placed on an Amiodarone drip and maintained on several
inotropes to keep a stable blood pressure.

A Renal consultation was called and a left Quinton catheter
placed and CVVH was started.  TEE also done confirmed severe
symmetric LVH with severe global dysfunction.  Over the
course of that evening, he developed hematemesis and EGD done
showed variable amounts of bleeding throughout the stomach.
He was taken emergently to the Operating Room where a total
gastrectomy was performed.  His coagulopathy was also
reversed at that time and he remained on ECMO and pressure-
control ventilation.  Please see the operative note dated
[**2188-8-13**] for further details of the procedure.  His
abdomen was unable to be closed and his esophagus was left as
a blind stump as was his duodenum as well with JP drains
placed.

He was taken to the  Operating Room the following day for a
washout and  placement.  Again, see the respective operating
notes for full details of the procedure.  Initially, General
Surgery again reexamined the abdomen and did not find any
site of clear bleeding.  A median sternotomy was performed
and initially an  was placed with attempts to wean off of
ECMO; however, he was unable to wean off ECMO and  was placed
as well.  He was maintained on biventricular assist and his
balloon pump was removed.  Vascular Surgery was consulted
intraoperatively to close his femoral artery incision on the
left and the femoral artery and femoral vein defects on the
right.  His chest and abdomen were left open and he was
transferred back to the CRSU in critical condition.

Infectious Disease consultation had been obtained the night
before for broad spectrum antibiotic therapy which included
vancomycin, meropenem, Flagyl, and fluconazole.  He continued
to be dependent on his biventricular assist device with
reasonable flow and then was able to be diuresed reasonably.
He, however, remained on multiple pressors including
Levophed, epinephrine, Pitressin, and was also paralyzed and
heavily sedated.

General Surgery again reevaluated the patient and considered
when he would need to be reconnected with his GI tract.
However, he was noted to have bilious drainage from his JP
site.  They then washed him out at the bedside and oversewed
his duodenal stump and placed a drain to decompress that
area.  The following day, he then developed a pretty
significant respiratory acidosis requiring multiple
bronchoscopies with findings of clot and mucous plug.  These
were cleared with improvement in his respiratory status.
However, he remained on pressure control ventilation with
marginal oxygenation.  His gastrointestinal biopsies revealed
evidence of amyloidosis and given the obvious systemic nature
of his disease in addition to the finding intraoperative at
the time of  placement of multiple amyloid deposits portended
a poor prognosis for this gentleman.

A family meeting was convened and the decision was made to
withdrawal care.  His pressors were stopped and he was weaned
off the  and expired shortly thereafter.  The family was
notified.  The medical examiner was notified and a postmortem
examination was refused.

CAUSE OF DEATH:  Multisystem organ failure secondary to
cardiogenic shock from infiltrative amyloidosis.



                        [**Doctor Last Name **] [**Last Name (Prefixes) **], M.D. [**MD Number(1) 1288**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 13030**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2188-8-18**] 19:43:30
T:  [**2188-8-18**] 21:01:02
Job#:  [**Job Number **]
