Admission Date:  [**2112-5-10**]       Discharge Date:  04/04/2091

Date of Birth:   [**2056-4-16**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICINE

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath, hemoptysis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 56 year old male with
a history of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(pulmonary function tests [**8-/2107**]:  FEV1 1.04/FVC 2.11/RV
3.98), on home oxygen, status post recent admission
([**2112-4-20**], to [**2112-4-26**]), for hypercarbic respiratory failure
requiring mechanical ventilation for 36 hours, treated for
bilateral pneumonia with Levaquin and started on slow
Prednisone taper over one month, who presents today with two
to three days of increased dyspnea, intermittent pleuritic
chest pain lasting seconds to minutes, and epigastric pain.

Per primary care physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] patient has also continued to
smoke outside with oxygen off at times, although the patient
currently denies.  He reports chills over the past two days,
no fever.  Cough mostly nonproductive and not worse compared
to baseline.  Also reports three to four episodes of dime to
quarter size hemoptysis over the past one to two days, which
is new.  He denies a history of tuberculosis.  He denies calf
pain.  He denies lower extremity edema.  Perhaps slight
increase in orthopnea.  No paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Chest pain is not associated with any
other symptoms such as nausea or vomiting or abdominal pain.
No radiation, and no diaphoresis.  Not associated with
exertion.  Abdominal pain appears to be for the most part
confined to the right upper quadrant epigastric region.  No
melena or bright red blood per rectum.  No change in color of
stools.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; home oxygen
    two liters nasal cannula, status post Endotracheal tube
    for hypercarbic respiratory failure in [**4-14**], continuing
    tobacco use.
2.  Obesity.
3.  Type II diabetes mellitus, diet controlled.
4.  Diverticulosis.
5.  Low back pain (C6-C7 disc herniation).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Enteric Coated Aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d.
2.  Atrovent MDI two to three puffs q.i.d.
3.  Prilosec 20 milligrams p.o. q.d.
4.  Beconase MDI four puffs b.i.d.
5.  Norvasc 7.5 milligrams q.d.
6.  Prednisone taper currently at 30 milligrams q.d.
7.  Saline nasal spray.
8.  Tylenol 650 milligrams q4hours p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and lives with his
wife and two children.  The patient has a 160 pack year
smoking history starting at the age of 14.  He has a history
of heavy alcohol use including drinking up to five beers a
day.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient has a daughter with fibrosis.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs reveal temperature 96.8,
pulse 104, blood pressure 118/60, respiratory rate 24, 66% on
two liters, 85% on two liters postnebulizer treatment.  In
general, obese middle age male sitting in a chair in moderate
respiratory distress with pursed lips.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat - Anicteric.  Extraocular movements are
intact.  Moist mucous membranes.  The neck is supple with
full range of motion.  No jugular venous distention
appreciated.  Cardiovascular tachycardia, regular, normal S1
and S2.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops appreciated.  Lungs -
Expiratory wheezes, increased E:I ratio.  Bilateral midlung
crackles.  Abdomen is obese, normoactive bowel sounds, soft,
nondistended, nontender.  Extremities 1+ edema bilaterally to
the knees.

LABORATORY DATA:  9:00 a.m., white blood cell count 7.7,
hematocrit 52.9 (baseline 40 to 55 over the last five years),
MCV 95, RDW 12.7, platelets 108,000 (baseline 130,000 to
140,000 in 07/00), 83 segs, 8 bands, 6 lymphocytes, 2
monocytes.  At 9:00 a.m., sodium 132, potassium greater than
10.0 and hemolyzed, repeat 4.7, chloride 93, bicarbonate 24
(baseline 30), blood urea nitrogen 16, creatinine 0.6,
glucose 416.  At 5:00 p.m., sodium 137, potassium 4.0,
chloride 92, bicarbonate 32, blood urea nitrogen 19,
creatinine 0.8, glucose 426, ALT 16, AST 89, alkaline
phosphatase 93, total bilirubin 0.9, amylase 3, calcium 8.7,
phosphorus 4.4, magnesium 2.2.  CK #1 146 with MB 2.0, CK #2
15, CK #3 10, troponin less than 0.3.  Arterial blood gases
reveal 1:15 p.m. 7.37/64/29/38.

Chest x-ray reveal bilateral mid and lower lung patchy
opacities, bilateral pleural effusions, slightly large
cardiac silhouette, slight upper zone redistribution,
flattening of diaphragms consistent with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.

Electrocardiogram sinus tachycardia, borderline right axis
deviation, repolarization abnormalities in the anterior leads
V1 through V3, no ischemic changes.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:
1.  Pulmonary - The patient was admitted for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation in the setting of
possible aspiration pneumonia.  The patient was initially
admitted to the floor but after pulmonary consultation, the
patient was transferred for observation to the MICU for
aggressive nebulizer treatment and possible noninvasive
ventilation.  The patient's hypoxia was thought to be most
likely due to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
and pneumonia.

The patient was initially treated with nebulizers q2hours and
q1hour p.r.n., supplemental oxygen to maintain oxygen
saturation of 87 to 90%, Solu-Medrol 40 milligrams
intravenously q.i.d.  The patient was also started on
Levaquin and Clindamycin for empiric coverage of aspiration
pneumonia.  The patient stabilized and did well with this
treatment.

In the MICU, the patient did not require intubation or BIPAP.
Multiple arterial blood gases were sent with increased but
stable pCO2.  The patient was transferred to the floor on
[**2112-5-12**], requiring nebulizer treatment q4hours.  The patient
was able to be changed to Atrovent, Albuterol, Flovent and
Serevent inhalers with nebulizer treatments q4hours p.r.n.
The patient was also switched from intravenous Solu-Medrol to
a Prednisone taper beginning at 60 milligrams.

Levaquin and Clindamycin were continued to complete a
fourteen day course. On the day before discharge, the patient
was saturating 82 to 92% on two liters nasal cannula.  The
patient continued to have baseline dyspnea and cough. The
patient agreed to smoking cessation and was willing to go to
inpatient pulmonary rehabilitation for further observation of
his status.

The patient did not report further hemoptysis after
admission.  Initial hemoptysis was likely secondary to
bronchitis.  As the patient has a negative chest CT for
masses one year ago, repeat chest CT was not performed during
this admission.  The patient likely will need pulmonary
function testing and chest physical therapy as outpatient.

2.  Infectious disease - The patient was started on Levaquin
and Clindamycin for presumed aspiration pneumonia.  The
patient remained afebrile and had decreased white blood count
during admission.

3.  Cardiovascular - The patient ruled out for myocardial
infarction with CPK times three, negative troponin, no
ischemic electrocardiographic changes.  The patient does have
risk factors for coronary artery disease including tobacco
and diabetes mellitus and may need outpatient exercise stress
test.

4.  Endocrine - The patient has a history of type II diabetes
mellitus, diet controlled.  The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was
complicated by hyperglycemia on steroids.  The patient was
placed on a NPH regimen of 20 units q.a.m. and 12 units
q.p.m.. with sliding scale regular insulin.

5.  Hematology - The patient developed thrombocytopenia
(platelets 92,000) on subcutaneous Heparin.  Heparin was
discontinued and replaced with Venodyne boots.  Heparin
antibody, however, was negative.  Platelets on discharge were
193,000.

6.  FEN - The patient was maintained on cardiac, [**Doctor First Name **] diet.

7.  Prophylaxis - Prilosec.  Physical therapy was consulted
and the patient was able to ambulate 150 feet on two liters
of oxygen without assistance.  Saturation was 85% on oxygen
after ambulation.

8.  Full code.

9.  Disposition - The patient will need pulmonary
rehabilitation, ideally inpatient.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOS