Admission Date:  [**2145-12-8**]       Discharge Date:  [**2146-1-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2089-8-6**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 56 year old
male with past medical history significant for hypertension
who fell from a height of approximately 15 feet at a
construction site.  He had a loss of consciousness and was
evaluated at an outside hospital and found to have no
sensation or movement from the waist down.  [**Location (un) 2611**] coma
scale was 15 and he complained of chest and wrist pain.  He
was hemodynamically stable throughout his evaluation on
transport and he arrived at [**Hospital6 2018**] with [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 2611**] coma scale of 15, decreased sensation
below the knee on the left and below the mid calf on the
right with complaint of right chest pain and wrist pain as
well as shortness of breath.  He was transferred on
intravenous steroid, spine protocol.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, scoliosis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Atenolol 100 mg q.d.; Zoloft 100
mg q.d.; Triamterene and Hydrochlorothiazide 50/25 q. day;
potassium supplement, acetaminophen 81 mg q. day, and
Pulmicort.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was awake, alert with
[**Location (un) 2611**] coma scale of 15, temperature 36.2, blood pressure
150/palpable, heartrate 96.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat, pupils were equally round and reactive to light.
Tympanic membranes were clear bilaterally.  He was
normocephalic, atraumatic.  His trachea was midline and no
jugulovenous distension.  His chest was stable with decreased
breathsounds at the apex on the right but otherwise clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Heart was regular rate and rhythm,
no murmurs.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended.
Pelvis was stable.  Rectal examination, no tone, normal
prostate.  Extremities, no sensation on the left from the
knee distally and on the right from mid calf distally.  No
movement bilaterally of the lower extremities.  Bilateral
upper extremities, neurovascularly intact.  Right wrist
laceration, pulses 2+ peripheral pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission complete blood count white
count 17.4, hematocrit 38.4, platelets 289, PT 13.3, PTT
22.1, INR 1.2.  Chemistries, sodium 142, potassium 2.9,
chloride 106, bicarbonate 24, glucose 208, BUN 18, creatinine
1.1, lactaid 4.5, fibrinogen level 177.  Urinalysis with
small amount of blood and protein.  Serum toxicology was
negative, urine was positive for opiates.  Films done on
admission, chest x-ray showed positive right pulmonary
contusion, rib fractures, T3 through T7, no pneumothorax, no
hemothorax, mediastinum within normal limits.  Severe
thoracic scoliosis. Pelvis no fractures.  Right wrist forearm
films were negative for fracture.  Computerized tomography
scan of the head showed no bleed, shift, soft tissue swelling
or fractures.  Computerized tomography scan of the spine
showed no fractures.  Computerized tomography scan of the
chest showed no fracture, no pneumothorax, mediastinum
normal, right scapular fracture.  Computerized tomography
scan of the abdomen and pelvis, L1, L2 fracture with
posterior displacement, cord compression and a T12 anterior
body fracture.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Trauma
Intensive Care Unit and Neurosurgery consult was obtained and
the patient was continued on Solu-Medrol 5.4 mg/kg/hour for
23 hours.

Initial neurological examination reveals the patient was
alert and oriented times three, conversant, speech fluent,
moving upper extremity through full range of motion with good
strength, sensation, right wrist in Ace wrap with splint.
Absent rectal tone, absent sensation to light touch and
pinprick from right knee down and from approximately 4 cm
above the left knee down.  Motor and minimal flicker movement
of bilateral iliopsoas muscles and quadriceps but not able to
lift leg or knee off of bed.  No movement of feet or toes
bilaterally.  Deep tendon reflexes absent in the lower
extremities.  Plantar reflex was absent.  Magnetic resonance
imaging scan of the lumbar spine was obtained, acute
compression deformity of L1 with retropulsion with a fracture
fragment to the canal and anterior wedging due to the
fracture seen at L1, compression of the conus was also seen.
Inversion recovery images revealed narrow edema within T11,
T12, L1 and L5 levels.  There was also suggestion of possible
contusion or edema present within the conus.  In addition
there was compression of the conus by the retropulsed
fracture of L1.  The overall examination was limited
secondary to motion artifact.  Upon admission the patient was
made NPO.  With the use of Solu-Medrol, confusion was
continued.  The cervical collar was left in place.  He was
limited to lying flat on his back and the neurological checks
q. 1 hour and log-roll precautions.  Anesthesia was consulted
with possible epidural for pain control of the scapular and
rib fractures, but secondary to his neurological deficits it
was decided not to place the catheter, instead a rib block
with .1% Bupivacaine was done with minimal pain relief.  On
hospital day #2 the patient's neurological examination was
slightly improved with increased iliopsoas strength to 2 out
of 5 and increased quadriceps strength, able to lift against
gravity, although the sensory examination had not changed.
The patient's cervical spine was cleared clinically and with
negative films and the cervical collar was removed.  An
orthopedic consult was obtained on hospital day #1 for
recommendations on the scapular fracture and the clavicular
fracture.  Their recommendations were for nonoperative
treatment and just making the right upper extremity
nonweightbearing on SICU day #3.  The patient's oxygen
saturations went down to the 80s when he was off
nonrebreather face mask. He had obvious reduction with
excursion, repairing of the flare segment, but peak generous
title volumes on the left.  The chest x-ray that day showed a
right-sided effusion with multiple rib fractures, so a 36
French right-sided chest tube was placed for evacuation of
the hemothorax with immediate 200 cc out of the chest tube.
The patient's hematocrit on SICU day #3 was 32, which was
down from a initial hematocrit of 38.  The drop in hematocrit
was likely from hemothorax and possibly from retroperitoneal
bleeding from his fractures.  A Dobbhoff tube was placed
under fluoroscopy as well as a right internal jugular placed.
Total parenteral nutrition was started.  Because of the
patient's fever, temperature maximum of 38.4, and elevated
amylase of 909 it was decided to obtain an abdominal
computerized tomography scan, looking for possible small
bowel injury.  The computerized tomography scan showed no
evidence of pancreatic injury and again showed the L1, L2
burst fracture with multiple rib fractures and no evidence of
bowel injury.  The patient also received bilateral lower
extremity duplex dopplers that were negative for deep vein
thrombosis.  On SICU day #4 the patient received 3 units of
packed red blood cells secondary to a hematocrit of 26, again
likely secondary to retroperitoneal bleed and seeing as how
the abdominal computerized tomography scan was negative for
any visceral injury the patient was also started on CPAP to
improve oxygenation.  The patient was also changed from
Lopressor to Labetalol for his cardiac protection as well as
blood pressure control.  Over the past couple of days the
patient had been noted to be slightly confused with
agitation.  The patient was given Ativan for the agitation
with adequate control as well as Haldol for the delirium.
The patient was taken to the Operating Room on SICU day #6.
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1327**] performed a retroperitoneal and one vertebrectomy
with stabilization from T12 to L2.  There was estimated blood
loss of 1700 cc, 4 units of packed red blood cells were
given.  The urine output was 550 during the procedure.  The
patient was taken to the Trauma SICU in stable condition.  On
postoperative day #1 chest x-ray showed continued right
pleural effusion and the left chest tube o