Admission Date:  [**2200-10-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2200-10-13**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 85 year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease status post
coronary artery bypass graft, hypertension, diabetes,
presents with mental status change, hypoglycemia, bradycardia
and primary AV block.  Because of the patient's somnolence,
the majority of the patient's history was obtained from EMS
and a neurological consult note.  The patient lives in
[**Location **] and was in town for his granddaughter's wedding.  At
baseline the patient was fully functional.  This morning the
patient was found lying on the floor of a hotel room
mumbling.  The patient was found next to several bottles of
unlabeled pills with some pills strewn about on the floor.
The patient was given insulin by the daughter and became
somewhat more responsive for a period of time, but was still
disoriented.  The patient, however, was able to ambulate.
The patient went to bed, but at approximately 3:00 p.m. in
the afternoon the patient's family woke him and found him
combative and incontinent with garbled speech.  EMS was
called who found a blood sugar of 40, blood pressure 112/60.
The patient was given Thiamine and D5.  As per the patient's
daughter the patient denied any recent history of fevers,
night sweats, shortness of breath, chest pain or
palpitations.  The patient had a similar episode two years
ago in which he was found unresponsive on the floor, but
responded to some juice.

In the Emergency Department the patient received normal
saline 1 liter intravenous.  The patient had recurrent
hypoglycemia to the 40s for which he was given additional
D50.  The patient also spiked a temperature of 101.9 for
which he was pan cultured.  He received a lumbar puncture and
a head CT.  In the Emergency Department the patient also had
episodes of alternating combativeness with lethargy requiring
Ativan IV for agitation.  The patient later received aspirin,
heparin drip and Rocephin 2 grams intravenous times one.
During the interview the patient is somnolent and
noncommunicative, snoring loudly, but responsive to painful
stimuli.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease status
post coronary artery bypass graft.  2.  Hypertension.  3.
Diabetes mellitus.  4.  Hypercholesterolemia.  5.  Renal
insufficiency.

PREVIOUS MEDICATIONS:  Metoprolol, _______________, Atalat,
Zocor, insulin, Zestril, hydrocodone prn.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Not applicable.  The patient lives in
[**Location **].  Denies tobacco and alcohol use.

ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.5.  Heart
rate in the 40s.  Blood pressure 128/50.  Respiratory rate
16.  Pulse ox 94% on room air.  General appearance, the
patient is lethargic elderly male in some distress.  HEENT
pupils are equal, round and reactive to light and
accommodation 2 to 3 mm bilaterally.  Oropharynx is black and
discolored.  There is no adenopathy.  Heart rate is
bradycardic.  S1 and S2 with occasional S4 gallop.  No
murmurs or rubs.  Lungs decreased breath sounds at the bases
bilaterally.  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen is
soft, nontender,nondistended with no masses.  Decreased bowel
sounds.  Extremities, calfs are soft and nontender.  There is
2+ bilateral edema.  Neurological examination the patient is
somnolent, lethargic and responding to painful stimuli,
moving both upper and lower extremities bilaterally.

ADMISSION LABORATORY STUDIES:  White blood cell count 10.8,
hematocrit 33.4, platelets 173.  Differential 84%
neutrophils, 9% lymphocytes, 0% monocytes.  Sodium 138,
potassium 4.4, chloride 103, bicarbonate 26, BUN 37,
creatinine 1.7, INR 1.1, AST 82, alkaline phosphatase 80,
albumin 3.6, phosphate 3.6, ALT 20.  Total bilirubin 0.4,
calcium 9.2, magnesium 2.3, fibrinogen 116.  CPK initially
1545 with an MB index of 4.1 and a troponin greater then 50.
Troponin one greater then 50.  Urinalysis showed 100 protein,
0 to 2 red blood cells, few bacteria, small blood 0 to 2
white cells.  Cerebral spinal fluid, tube number four, white
blood cells 4, red blood cells 18, 25% lymphocytes, 14%
monocytes, 5% macrophages, protein 52, glucose 16.  Tube
number one, white blood cell count 15, red blood cell count
[**Pager number **], 67% polys, 15% lymphocytes, 14% macrophages, 2%
monocytes.  Serum tox screen showed aspirin of 9, negative
for ethanol, acetaminophen, benzodiazepines, barbiturates,
and tricyclics.  Urine tox screen was positive for
amphetamine.  Initial arterial blood gases 7.38, 40, 80, 25.
Cerebral spinal fluid analysis showed no polys and no
organisms.  Urine and blood cultures were ultimately
negative.  Head CT showed negative for bleed or infarct.  The
chest x-ray shows some mild hilar congestion.
Electrocardiogram number one showed sinus bradia at 45 beats
per minute, primary AV block, marked Qs noted in 3 and AVF,
.[**Street Address(2) 1755**] depression in 1 and L, V3 through V6.
Electrocardiogram number two showed primary AV block with
marked left axis deviation.  There were Qs in leads 3 and F
with .[**Street Address(2) 1755**] depressions in V3 through V5, [**Street Address(2) 27354**]
depressions in lead V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiovascular:  The patient with a
history of coronary artery disease status post coronary
artery bypass graft presented with mental status change
perhaps related to myocardial infarction.  The patient ruled
in for a non ST segment myocardial infarction with CPK
greater then [**2198**] and troponin 1 greater then 50.  The
patient was managed medically as CPKs were down trending and
was given 48 hours of heparin.  Echocardiogram revealed an
ejection fraction of 30 to 35% markedly dilated left atrium,
mildly dilated left ventricle with overall left ventricular
systolic function depressed as well as moderate global left
ventricular hypokinesis.

The patient underwent cardiac catheterization.  Cardiac
catheterization was notable for moderate calcification of the
left main coronary artery, which had a 50 to 60% distal
tapering.  The left anterior descending coronary artery was
occluded proximally, the left circumflex was notable for
ostial disease after the left main.  The right coronary
artery was totally occluded proximally.  The saphenous vein
graft to the obtuse marginal was proximally occluded.  The
saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery was totally
occluded.  The saphenous vein graft to the left anterior
descending coronary artery was patent.  There was no critical
disease in the graft.  There was no intervention and the
patient was managed medically following cardiac
catheterization.  The patient was also noted to have primary
AV block on admission.  He underwent an EP study later on
this admission, which noted marked AV nodal dysfunction with
no inducible ventricular tachycardia.  A DDD pacer was
implanted without complications.  The patient was managed
medically for his coronary artery disease through the
duration of this admission.

2.  Neurological:  The patient presented with acute mental
status change of unclear etiology.  Head CT was negative.
Electroencephalogram later in the admission was negative.
Tox screen was positive for amphetamines, but history was not
consistent with a toxodrom as there may have been cross
reactivity with other medications the patient was taking.
Lumbar puncture suggested possible infectious etiology.  The
patient was initially treated with broad spectrum antibiotics
including Ceftriaxone, Vancomycin and Acyclovir and
Ampicillin. Cerebral spinal fluid bacterial cultures were
negative and antibiotics were discontinued.  HSV PCR was also
negative and Acyclovir was discontinued one day prior to
discharge.  Chest x-ray and urinalysis were not suggestive of
an infectious process.

3.  Hematological:  The patient was evaluated by the
Hematology Service for question of TTP.  There was no
evidence of schistocytes on the peripheral smear.  The
patient's differential was, however, notable for a
monocytosis of unclear etiology, which should be followed as
an outpatient.  Although the patient's hematocrit remained
relatively stable during this admission he was 