Admission Date: [**2107-2-8**]        Discharge Date: [**2107-2-21**]

Date of Birth:  [**2041-5-18**]        Sex:  M

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Ischemic right foot.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a hospital
transfer from [**Hospital3 26615**]. He was initially evaluated at [**Hospital3 26616**] on [**2107-2-28**]. He was brought into the emergency
room by the EMS with complaints of right foot pain over the
last several weeks. Denies any injury to the area. He also
denies any systemic infections, illnesses with fever, chest
pain, abdominal pain, productive coughing or genitourinary
symptoms. He had a recent outpatient vascular exam on the
right lower extremity which revealed multiple narrowings and
no significant blood flow distant to the popliteal artery,
but he was uncertain what plans were made to deal with the
problem.

Patient was initially evaluated in the emergency room there.
Patient was transferred to our hospital for further
evaluation and care under the care of Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1391**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Allergies: BuSpar and Percodan.
Manifestations unknown.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Trazodone 65 mg at bedtime,
Protonix 40 mg once daily, Risperdal 0.25 mg at bedtime,
Toprol XL 100 mg once daily and hydrochlorothiazide.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient lives alone. Habits: Patient is a
current smoker. Has a history of alcohol abuse. Has a history
of marijuana use.

ILLNESSES:  Right foot ischemia, history of hypertension,
history of alcohol abuse, history of bipolar disorder,
history of paranoia, history of GERD, postoperative blood-
loss anemia, transfused.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient is alert and oriented x3 in no
acute distress. Cachectic looking. Lungs are clear to
auscultation. Heart is a regular rate and rhythm. Abdominal
exam is unremarkable. Pulses are palpable femorals and
popliteals bilaterally. The pedal pulses are monophasic
Dopplerable signals bilaterally.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was initially evaluated in the
emergency room and then transferred to the in-house vascular
service for continued care. Patient had pulse volume
recordings done on [**2107-2-9**], which demonstrated severe
aortoiliac disease on the right with probable occlusion and
significant aortoiliac disease on the left with additional
bilateral SFA and tibial disease. The Dopplers on the right
were monophasic. Femoral and popliteal absent pedal pulses.
On the left he had monophasic femoral, popliteal with absent
posterior tibial and monophasic DP. The metatarsal pressure
on the right was 6 mm, on the left was 9. The ABI on the left
was 0.50; on the right it could not be calculated.

Patient was placed on a CIWA scale and thiamin and folate on
admission prophylactically. The patient  underwent a
diagnostic arteriogram on [**2107-2-11**], which demonstrated
a left external ileac was occluded, the left common iliac was
occluded, the profunda femoralis was occluded. There was a
patent SFA with 3-vessel runoff.

Nutritional services followed the patient secondary to
question of malnutrition. Recommendations were to continue
calorie count and Boost with meals.

Cardiology was consulted in preparation for preoperative risk
assessment. They recommended a Persantine MIBI given that the
procedure scheduled (aorto bilateral femoral) is a high risk.
Patient's exercise capacity is unknown. A maximized blood
pressure control with beta blockade. Consider adding an ACE
inhibitor for added blood pressure control and would add a
statin to the [**Hospital 228**] medical regimen. Also recommended to
continue the Toprol, to continue his current
hydrochlorothiazide.

Patient underwent a Persantine MIBI on [**2107-2-15**]. The
stress portion was without symptoms or EKG changes. The
nuclear study showed a normal left ventricular function and
wall motion without perfusion defects. Echocardiogram was
obtained which showed an ejection fraction greater than 55%.
The left ventricle showed moderate symmetric left ventricular
hypertrophy with a normal LV cavity size and normal regional
wall motion. Studies with no resting LVOT. There was mild
aortic valve leaflet thickening without aortic stenosis or
aortic regurgitation. The mitral valve leaflets showed no
prolapse with 1% MR. [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] valves were normal with
trivial TR. PA systolic pressures could not be determined.
There is a normal pulmonic valve leaflet with physiologic PR.

CT of the abdomen and pelvis was obtained which demonstrated
aorta as a normal in caliber with scattered calcification and
plaque. There was calcification at the celiac origin
resulting in a high-grade stenosis and a poststenotic
dilatation. A regular artery stenotic is stenotic at the
origin was partially calcified. There was moderate stenosis
of the SMA. The right common iliac, the right internal and
external iliac arteries are occluded with severe segmental
calcification. There is a tiny collateral supplying the right
common femoral artery. The left common iliac and internal
iliac are heavily calcified but patent. The left external
iliac was occluded. The left common femoral artery was patent
with collaterals slow.

A CT of the abdomen showed the liver, gallbladder, pancreas
and large small bowel loops appeared unremarkable. Spleen is
15.5 cm. There were several hypodense lesions in the kidney
which most likely represents cyst. The left adrenal gland
demonstrates a 9 mm nodule.

The CT of the abdomen with contrast: The bladder is
unremarkable. Sigmoid colon contains multiple diverticula
without evidence of diverticulitis. The bone windows showed a
laminectomy of L5 and S1 with fixation wires between the os
sacrum and the lower spine. There is a [**12-6**] grade
anterolisthesis of L5 and L6.

On [**2-17**] patient proceeded to undergo aortobifemoral
bypass with a 6mm x 18 mm Dacron graft. Patient tolerated the
procedure well and was transferred to the PACU in stable
condition postoperatively. He remained in the PACU intubated,
sedated. His pulse showed warm feet bilaterally with stable
bilateral gangrenous toes, but the PT and DP on the right
were biphasic Dopplerable signal. The PT and DP on the left
were triphasic signal. Nitroglycerin was ________ for
systolic hypertension. This was weaned off, and the blood
pressure was under control. Patient was continued on
perioperative cephazolin and Flagyl. Patient was extubated
and transferred to the VICU for continued monitoring and
care.

On postoperative day 1 there were no overnight events. He was
afebrile. Dressings were clean, dry, intact. The groins were
clean. The pulse exam remained unchanged. Blood pressure was
well controlled, and his pain was well controlled.

On postoperative day 2 patient's overnight temperature was
101.3 to 101. Aggressive pulmonary toiletry was instituted.
Patient's chest x-ray showed a basilar atelectasis, left
being greater than the right with small right pleural
effusion and somewhat perihilar haziness suggesting
asymmetric pulmonary edema versus aspiration.

The chest x-ray on [**2-20**] showed the interstitial pulmonary
edema was slightly improved. The right basilar atelectasis
had resolved. There was a dense consolidation in the left
lung base associated with the pleural effusion indicating
pneumonia.

Blood and urine cultures were negative. Patient was continued
on aggressive pulmonary toiletry. Vancomycin and levofloxacin
were started empirically for patient's aspiration pneumonia.
Patient continued to be diuresed.

On postoperative day 3 patient required an increase in his
Ativan dosing, continued aggressive diuresis. His diet was
advanced as tolerated. His Lopressor was increased for rate
control. Patient was evaluated by physical therapy, who felt
that the patient may require long-term care if his mental
status and functional capacity do not improve. Social service
followed the patient and discussed with his sister the
medical condition and problems of the patient. Sister is very
much supportive and would like to be involved in the care.
Social service will discuss this with the patient. Patient
will be discharged to rehab when medically stabl