Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 52821**]
Admission Date: [**2107-1-25**]
Discharge Date: [**2107-2-3**]
Date of Birth:
Sex:
Service:


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  To transfer from floor after polymorphic
ventricular tachycardia arrest.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77-year-old female
with unclear history of prior CAD, with history of a mass
encapsulating right middle lobe and right lower lobe bronchi
with no liver metastasis, presumed to be a possible
malignancy, unclear brain mets (though noncontrast head CT
showed no hemorrhage or midline shift), who was initially
transferred from an outside hospital for concerns of an aorta
dissection.  By MRI at [**Hospital1 **], she was found to have aneurysmal
thoracic and abdominal aorta with penetrating ulcers, but no
evidence of a clear dissection.  Evaluation on the outside
had revealed elevated CKs to around 2200 with troponin T at
peak 24.  The outside hospital ECG had shown atrial
fibrillation, rapid ventricular response up to 150s with ST
depressions.  At the [**Hospital1 **], on [**2107-1-25**], the patient was in
sinus rhythm without clear ischemia.  However, until the a.m.
of transfer on [**2107-1-26**], the patient had an episode of
polymorphic ventricular tachycardia degenerating into
ventricular fibrillation, ultimately requiring DCCV,
lidocaine, and amiodarone drip.  The patient was intubated,
placed on dopamine for pressure support and then staged with
propofol and transferred to the CCU for further evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Breast cancer, diagnosed eight years
ago, status post mastectomy.

Triple aorta repair approximately 5 to 10 years ago.

History of CAD with MI in the 80s.

Hyperlipidemia.

Presumed COPD.

Question of psychiatric disorder.

MEDICATIONS:  Synthroid unclear dose, also alternative
medications.  At the time of transfer, the patient was on
amiodarone drip, dopamine of 13, aspirin, and propofol.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lived with retarded daughter and son.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Afebrile, temperature
97.9, blood pressure in the systolic 110s/70s, actually in
the 70s, heart rates in the 120s, respiratory of 20, on AC
600, saturating 100 percent.  General:  The patient was
intubated and sedated.  Cardiovascular:  She was tachycardic,
irregular with a [**3-12**] holosystolic murmur at the apex.
Abdomen exam:  Benign.  Extremities:  The patient has 2+
lower extremity edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  From [**2107-1-26**] show a CBC of 13.2,
hematocrit 34.9, and platelets of 36,000.  Chemistries,
sodium 144, potassium 3.6, chloride 109, bicarbonate 29.5,
BUN 31, creatinine 0.8, glucose 129, lactate of 13.7, down to
6.3, coagulations 13.4, 28, 1.2; ALT 118, AST 319, alkaline
phosphatase 131, total bilirubin 0.7, troponin is 8 down from
24.  CPK has been 2240, 1649, and 566 last.

Echocardiogram shows an ejection fraction of 25% with global
hypokinesis, 1 plus MR, mild aortic stenosis, negative for an
effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Review of systems:
CAD; the patient was admitted from an outside hospital with
elevated CK and troponin in the setting of rapid atrial
fibrillation.  She also has an unknown history of CAD.  Given
her CKs and troponin, the patient was treated with aspirin,
statin, and Plavix.  She was not heparinized in the setting
of a known malignancy with possible invasions to the brain.  She
was not placed on beta blockers given her hemodynamic
instability.  Her enzymes were trended down throughout her
hospital course.

Hypotension; the etiology of the patient's hypotension
remains somewhat unclear during the [**Hospital 228**] hospital
course.  Initially, she was transferred from the floor on
dopamine following a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia,
degenerative ventricular fibrillation arrest.  The patient
initially was treated for a possible cardiogenic insult.  She
was continued on dopamine.  However, the patient also has
fevers and there was a concern that the patient having
possible pneumonia.  As such, it was unclear if the patient's
hypotension was secondary to cardiogenic versus septic shock.
Subsequently, during her hospital course, the patient had
Swan placed, which showed a RA pressure of 10, RV pressure of
30/7, PA pressure of 35/25, and a wedge of 15 with a cardiac
index of 2.9, and SVR of 10.20.  Ultimately, secondary to
episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation and also episodes of
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, the patient was
transitioned from dopamine to levofed.  She did continue to
have episodes of hypotension that appeared to be fluid
responsive.  As such, it was felt that the sepsis may then
play a large role on the patient's hypotension.  Ultimately
she remained pressor dependent, until her death on [**2107-2-3**],
at which point pressors had been discontinued for CMO
status.

CHF; the patient had an echocardiogram from admission showing
an ejection fraction of only 25%, in the setting of presumed
cardiac ischemia.  As mentioned above, she was initially
thought to have a component of cardiogenic shock.  However,
her PA catheter numbers did not indicate cardiogenic shock.
She actually did receive a questionable amount of fluid later
in her hospital course for episodes of hypotension.  It was
felt later on the patient was grossly fluid overloaded, but
still is exhibiting septic physiology.  Ultimately, she was
gently diuresed to help improve oxygenation with bilateral
pleural effusions.  This therapy continued until decision is
to make the patient CMO.

Rhythm; the patient transferred to the CCU after following an
episode of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, degenerative
ventricular fibrillation arrest requiring DC cardioversion,
and in addition, IV amiodarone, lidocaine, epinephrine and
bicarbonate.  Throughout the patient's CCU course, she
remained extremely dependent upon both IV amiodarone and
lidocaine.  Initially, the patient was transitioned to p.o.
amiodarone and was attempted to have weaned off of lidocaine.
However, the patient developed several episodes of rapid
atrial fibrillation and also was felt to have some episodes
of sustained ventricular tachycardia.  Ultimately, lidocaine
was continued until the patient's family had desired to
change the patient's status to CMO, at which point, lidocaine
was discontinued.

Pulmonary:  Initially, the patient was transferred to the CCU
intubated following her ventricular tachycardia/ventricular
fibrillation arrest.  She remained intubated in her entire
course until her death on the 29th.  The patient ended up
spiking fevers throughout her hospital course.  Her sputum
was positive for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus.  She
was initially treated empirically with Levaquin and
clindamycin for possible postobstructive pneumonia given her
history of presumed lung cancer.  Later on, vancomycin was
added when staph was found in her sputum.  Meanwhile, the
patient actually oxygenated reasonably well during much of
her hospital course.  Later on, however, the patient
developed increased oxygen requirements, as she became
progressively more over fluid overloaded, secondary to the
amounts of fluids she is requiring for hemodynamics.

ID; as I mentioned above, the patient spiked fevers
throughout her CCU course.  Initially, she was treated with
Levaquin and clindamycin for presumed postobstructive
pneumonia.  Vancomycin was added later on when sputum was
found to be positive for staph.  In addition, there was
concern about possible line sepsis, so vancomycin was
continued for possible line-type sepsis.  She continued on
antibiotics until the day of her death at which point she was
changed to be CMO.  Of note, blood cultures remained negative
throughout her hospital course.

Oncology; the patient with history of breast cancer, status
post mastectomy.  Upon transfer to the hospital with having
findings of her mass increasing in the right middle lobe,
right lower bronchi.  The patient had an abdominal CT, which
also showed lesions in liver consistent with metastatic
disease.  The etiology of the patient's masses presumed to be
malignant of unclear etiology.  The patient did have a follow
up head CT, which was negativ