Admission Date:  [**2149-3-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2149-4-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2079-12-9**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

                       ADDENDUM

Note:  Please note that this is an interval dictation and
will begin on [**2149-4-7**], where the prior dictation left
off.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  As stated in the previous discharge
summary, the patient had been found to be in mild DIC after a
decrease in hematocrit was noted, and an abdominal CT was
performed which revealed multiple masses including bilateral
adrenal masses.  The patient had ruled out for myocardial
infarction, although he did have a positive cardiac history,
and it ultimately became clear that the patient's chest pain
was predominantly occurring after swallowing and generally
was felt to be due to a chest wall mass or other metastatic
disease, and the patient was sent for CT scan of the neck and
chest to identify an appropriate location for biopsy of
likely metastatic disease to identify the primary neoplasm
after probable lymphadenopathy had been noted on the
patient's left neck.

The patient went for CT scan of the neck which revealed
abnormal, rounded, low attenuation focus in the left tonsilar
pillar which may represent a neoplastic process versus
abscess, abnormal low-density nodes on the right jugular
chain consistent with necrotic nodes, possibly secondary to
malignancy, bullous changes in the lung apices, as well as
arterial plaque in the left common carotid.

The patient's chest CT revealed enlarged prevascular lymph
nodes measuring 1.4 cm, as well as extensive bullous
emphysematous changes of the right lung, and several bullae
of the left lower apex, as well as nodular opacity of the
left lung apex which could represent a scar or malignant
process, and slight thickening of the distal esophagus,

Multiple findings in the abdominal cuts which were previously
described included porta caval and ................
lymphadenopathy, and bilateral adrenal gland masses.

General Surgery was consulted, and the patient was sent for
excisional biopsy of the left neck lymphadenopathy which was
performed without complication on [**4-8**], and was read as
metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma.  Additional
stains were performed including .................. which was
positive and .................. 20 which was less positive,
as well as thyroid transcription factor which was positive,
and this was felt to be consistent with possible primary lung
neoplasm.

Hematology/Oncology continued to follow the patient regarding
the possibility of treating metastatic cancer in a palliative
mode versus the option of sending the patient to Hospice
should this be his wish.  At their request, a head CT was
performed on [**4-14**] which failed to show intracranial
metastasis or other abnormalities.  The patient and his wife
underwent several prolonged and detailed discussions with
Hematology/Oncology regarding the possible treatment
modalities versus withdraw of care and Hospice, and
ultimately chose at their request to be discharged home with
Hospice care with the emphasis made on comfort in a
palliative mode.

Additionally, please note that the patient continued to be in
DIC for the remainder of this admission and did receive
................... on [**4-10**] for a fibrinogen less than 100
which responded appropriately with a value over 100 on the
following day [**3-11**].

The patient also required intermittent transfusions to
maintain his hematocrit within the desired range of greater
than 30.  Please note that in discussion with
Hematology/Oncology and the patient, the consensus opinion
has been reached that no further treatment of DIC or anemia
or blood loss is indicated at this time.  The plan is for
discharge to Hospice on [**2149-4-16**], with a Hospice
consult pending at this time.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Please see page 1 for complete
medication list at the time of discharge to include
medications only for maintaining the patient's comfort.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  In addition to those previously
dictated:
1.  Widely metastatic adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated,
likely lung cancer.
2.  Disseminated intravascular coagulation.




                     DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) **] 12-463



Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2058**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2149-4-15**]  14:52
T:  [**2149-4-15**]  15:26
JOB#:  [**Job Number 43325**]
