Admission Date:  [**2103-4-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2103-4-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2046-10-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MEDICAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 56 year-old
female with a history of stage 4 non-small cell lung cancer
with brain metastasis diagnosed in [**2103-2-17**], SVC
syndrome and coronary artery disease, status post a
myocardial infarction who presented to the Emergency Room
with acute shortness of breath on [**2103-4-23**].  The patient
had been in her usual state of health until three days prior
to admission when she began experiencing shortness of breath
and mild chest pain.  She had had decreased p.o. intake for
the day prior to admission and was seen in oncology clinic
the day of admission and referred to the emergency
department. In the emergency department the patient was
saturating approximately 70 percent on room air with
cyanosis. After being placed on a nonrebreather the patient's
saturation improved to the 80s.  Chest x-ray revealed a right
pleural effusion and an increased heart size.  The patient
was escalated to BiPAP and then mask ventilation and
eventually was intubated.  Her electrocardiogram showed
diffuse ST changes and a stat echocardiogram was performed
which showed a large pericardial effusion without signs of
tamponade.  However. the patient was taken to the cardiac
catheterization laboratory where she had a brief cardiac
arrest.  Her rhythm remained sinus tachycardia but she had no
blood pressure.  The pericardial drain was placed for
pericardial tamponade and 260 cc of pericardial fluid was
removed.  The patient was resuscitated with this drainage and
with 3 amps of epinephrine.  Patient was subsequently put on
dopamine.  Her electrolytes were checked and her potassium
was found to be 6.1.  She was given insulin, D50 and
Kayexalate at that time and brought to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit.  At the time of admission she was unresponsive off
sedation with blood pressures in the 80s on Dopamine at
maximum dose and was saturating 80 percent with an FIO2 of
100 percent on her ventilator.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Is significant for non-small cell lung
cancer stage 4 diagnosed in [**2103-2-17**], for brain metastasis
being treated with radiation treatment in [**2103-3-20**],
status post Taxol and carboplatin treatment in [**2103-3-20**].
She had superior vena cava syndrome also treated with
radiation treatment on [**2103-4-16**].  Her history aside
from her oncologic history includes hypertension, coronary
artery disease, status post myocardial infarction,
osteoporosis, esophagitis and status post appendectomy and
status post total abdominal hysterectomy.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:  Included atenolol 50 mg p.o.
q.d., lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d., Prevacid 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Decadron 2 mg every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, MSIR 15 mg
p.o. q.d., Oxycodone 5 to10 mg p.o. 4 to 6 p.rn., Levaquin
500 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Both parents died of lung cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has an 80 pack-year smoking
history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs: the patient had a heart
rate of 120 on dopamine 5 mcg drip, blood pressure was 80/50
and respirations - no spontaneous respiration, saturation of
84 percent on the ventilator.  General appearance:
intubated, ill appearing female in no apparent distress.
Eyes open, no response to light.  Pupils dilated, o corneal
reflexed, no doll's eyes.  Neck: right internal jugular line
in place.  Cardiac: tachycardia, distant heart sounds.
Pulmonary:  clear to auscultation, decreased breath sounds.
Abdomen: positive bowel sounds, soft, obese, pericardial
drain in place.  Extremities: no cyanosis, clubbing or edema
but cold feet.  No pulses palpable at the time.  Neurologic:
no response to pain, not moving any extremities, no corneal
reflexes, no pupillary reflexes.  Eyes fixed in position.

LABORATORY DATA:  Prior to admission to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit white count 13.9 with a differential of 79
neutrophils, 12 band, 2 lymphocytes, 7 monocytes and 0
eosinophils.  Hematocrit 28.6, platelets 252.  Electrolytes
included a sodium of 116 which had slightly improved from
112, potassium of 4.3, slightly improved from 6.1, chloride
83, bicarbonate 15, BUN 63, creatinine 3.5, slightly improved
from 4.3, and glucose 155.  LDH was 367, CK 180, CK MB 4 and
troponin less than 0.3.  AST was 271, LDH 360, alk phos 147
and total bilirubin 0.3.  Electrocardiogram as stated showed
diffuse ST segment elevations.  Chest x-ray had bilateral
pleural effusion, right greater than left.  Cardiac
catheterization results showed tamponade with 200 cc removed,
diffuse coronary artery disease and status post brief cardiac
arrest.

Given the above the patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  By system:

1) Pulmonary:  The patient's ventilation settings were
adjusted.  She was continued on 100% FIO2.  With increasing
PEEP the patient experienced decrease in blood pressure.
Therefore, she was continued on minimal PEEP.  However, her
decreased O2 saturations were thought to be perhaps secondary
to peripheral vasoconstriction.  Therefore, when she had
extremities warmed and her blood pressure subsequently
improved her oxygen saturations improved as well.  Her
arterial blood gases did not show this severe hypoxemia.  The
patient also had her respiratory rate increase and tidal
volume increased to improve her pH which was 7.19 on
admission with fixed.  The patient had serial chest x-rays
throughout her admission which showed a minor pleural
effusion which was not immediately stopped given that the
patient was unstable and given that it was unlikely to have
been the cause of her respiratory distress.  The patient also
showed prominent pulmonary vasculature suggestive of
congestive heart failure and throughout her admission she
continued to autodiurese liters of fluid.  Pulmonary embolus
was suggested as a possibility of her shortness of breath,
therefore once stable the patient had a CT angiogram which
was negative for pulmonary embolus and negative for
lymphangitic spread of the tumor.  She still had some signs
of congestive heart failure and it did show a left atrial
thrombus in place.

2) Cardiac:  In terms of patient's pump she had a normal
ejection fracture.  This was confirmed with serial
echocardiograms.  The patient did, however, have an episode
of congestive heart failure of unknown cause.  In terms of
rhythm the patient had had an atrial fibrillation in the
emergency department and subsequently the pulse was
electrical arrest.  However, in the Medical Intensive Care
Unit she continued to have sinus tachycardia and normal sinus
rhythm.  In term of ischemia the patient had mild coronary
artery disease which was not active during her admission.
For her pericardium the patient had a drain in place and with
repeat echocardiograms it was found that the drain was not
putting out much output and the effusion remained small after
being tapped.  Therefore, the drain was pulled.  In terms of
her blood pressure the patient was initially hypotensive on
Dopamine. Therefore, the Dopamine was weaned off and Levophed
was begun with good results.  The patient was slowly titrated
off the Levophed and continued to do well.

3) Renal:  It was unclear whether the patient's renal failure
was due to a prerenal picture secondary to decreased flow
versus hypovolemia.  There was a question of congestive heart
failure on chest x-ray and her CVP was elevated.  With the
Levophed the patient's urine output continued to increase and
as the patient's blood pressure and respirations improved she
began to autodiurese and her creatine spontaneously decreased
as did her BUN.  Her electrolytes were supportively managed
and prior to her transfer from the Medical Intensive Care
Unit she was given Lasix multiple times to improve her urine
output and diuresis.  Otherwise in terms of urologic issues
the patient had arrived in the Medical Intensive Care Unit
barely response to any kind of stimulation.  However, this
resolved within one hour the patient was able to move her