Admission Date:  [**2140-12-7**]       Discharge Date:  [**2140-12-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2067-6-2**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73-year-old
Creole-speaking female with a history of insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, status
post myocardial infarction in [**2139-4-6**], who presented to
[**Hospital3 **] on the morning of admission with chest pain.
She was then transferred to [**Hospital6 2018**] for cardiac catheterization.

Catheterization was done on [**2140-12-7**], and showed an
ejection fraction of 45%, left main coronary artery was
normal, left anterior descending artery was totally occluded
at the ostium, left circumflex artery had a mid 90% tubular
lesion, ramus intermedius had an 80% proximal lesion, her
right coronary artery showed mild disease, right posterior
descending artery was with mild proximal disease.

The patient was then evaluated by Cardiac Surgery for
probable coronary artery bypass grafting.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
Hypertension.  Hypercholesterolemia.  Status post cataract.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her daughter, both currently
living with friends.  She never smoked.  She does not drink.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d.,
Nitroglycerin p.r.n., Imdur 30 mg p.o. q.d., Insulin 70/30 7
U in the morning, 5 U in the evening, Lipitor dose unknown 1
q.d.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No signs of gastroesophageal reflux
disease.  No melena.  No hematochezia.  No symptoms of stroke
or transient ischemic attack.  No history of vein stripping.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  She was a pleasant female in
no apparent distress.  Vital signs:  Heart rate 74, blood
pressure 174/80, respirations 18, oxygen saturation 98% on 2
L nasal cannula.  HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to
light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Oropharynx clear with
dentures in the upper palate.  Neck:  Supple.  No jugular
venous distention.  No bruits.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Heart:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  Without
murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Abdomen:  Positive bowel sounds.
Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities:  No clubbing,
cyanosis, or edema.  Neurological:  Grossly intact.  Pulses:
2+ bilaterally in the carotids, 2+ bilaterally in the radial
artery, by Doppler in the dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial
pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count was 6.7,
hematocrit 37%, platelet count 250,000; potassium 2.6, sodium
141, BUN 16, creatinine 0.8, troponin 9.22.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  While awaiting surgery, her hospital course
was uncomplicated.  On [**2140-12-14**], she underwent
coronary artery bypass grafting times three with the left
anterior descending and a saphenous vein graft to the
diagonal with a sequential graft to the OM.  Surgery was
performed by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 16398**] and nurse
[**First Name (Titles) 3639**] [**Last Name (Titles) **] as assistants.

The surgery was performed under general endotracheal
anesthesia with a cardiopulmonary bypass times of 61 min and
a cross-clamp time of 51 min.  The patient tolerated the
procedure well and was transferred to the Cardiac Recovery
Unit in normal sinus rhythm on epinephrine, Nitroglycerin and
Propofol drips with two atrial and two ventricular pacing
wires and two mediastinal and one left lower chest tube.

On the postoperative night, Propofol and anesthesia were
reversed, and she was weaned and extubated without
difficulty.  Also throughout the operative night, her
epinephrine drip was weaned off, and had to go on and off her
Nitroglycerin and Nipride drip for blood pressure control.

By postoperative day #1, she was stable and able to be
transferred to the Surgical Floor.  Her chest tubes did
remain in place, and she was A-paced at 80 beats per minute.

By postoperative day #2, the drainage from her chest tubes
had decreased, and they were discharge without incident.  She
continued on her preoperative Insulin doses with good blood
glucose control.

On the evening of postoperative day #2, she complained of
chest pain and was noted to have electrocardiogram changes in
leads V1-V4, namely ST elevations.  She was then seen by
Cardiology who felt that she should have urgent cardiac
catheterization to evaluate her graft.

The results of that cardiac catheterization showed that she
did have patent grafts with elevated filling pressures and a
low cardiac output.  Cardiac echocardiogram was then
recommended.

On postoperative day #3, she was noted to be drowsy but
arousable.  She was in no apparent distress.  However, as the
day went on, she was noted to be more confused with decreased
responsiveness.  A Neurology consult was obtained, and an MRI
with diffusion weighted images was recommended.

This was performed, and she was noted to have a
cerebrovascular accident.  It did show multiple small
infarcts throughout her basal ganglia and parietal lobes with
low flow within the cavernous ICA.

At that point, she was previously noted have left facial
weakness and arm weakness which was all evidence of a
periprocedural embolic stroke.

At that point, carotid ultrasounds were recommended to rule
out any further carotid stenosis, and Plavix was recommended,
in addition to Aspirin for antiplatelet therapy.

Her carotid ultrasound was done and was a normal study with
no plaque seen in the antegrade to the pupils.

She is therefore encouraged to work with Physical Therapy,
and her narcotics and any other sedating medications were
discontinued because there was thought to be some component
of encephalopathy that was causing her lethargy.

She did work with Physical Therapy intermittently, although
not on a regular basis due to her lethargy.

By postoperative day #7, it was felt that she would benefit
from a [**Hospital 3058**] rehabilitation stay, and she was screened
for rehabilitation.  She was accepted at rehabilitation and
will be discharged on [**12-22**] to rehabilitation.

DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Stable, heart
rate 62, blood pressure 134/68, respirations 20, oxygen
saturation 94%.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Heart:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  Abdomen:  Positive bowel
sounds.  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities:  No
edema.  Her incisions are clean, dry, and intact.  Sternum is
stable.

DISCHARGE LABORATORY DATA:  They will be dictated in an
addendum, along with her discharge chest x-ray.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 20
mg p.o. q.d., Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d., Plavix 75 mg p.o.
q.d., Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. for 7 days, Insulin 70/30 7 U
every morning, 5 U each evening, regular Insulin sliding
scale.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Status post coronary artery bypass grafting times three.
2.  Status post perioperative cerebrovascular accident.
3.  Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Hypercholesterolemia.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

FOLLOW-UP:  She should follow-up with her primary care
physician [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in [**1-7**] weeks, with her cardiologist in
[**2-8**] weeks, and with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] in four weeks.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 54451**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2140-12-21**]  18:32
T:  [**2140-12-21**]  18:33
JOB#:  [**Job Number 54452**]
