Admission Date:  [**2166-5-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2166-6-27**]


Service:

ADDENDUM:  On hospital day number five the patient underwent
a cecostomy placement secondary to the above mentioned
indications.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and
was seen post procedure by the Gold Surgery team who assessed
the patient in stable condition status post cecostomy and
chronic atrial fibrillation and the patient continued to do
well on postoperative day one where the patient was continued
on Levofloxacin and Flagyl as well as Diltiazem.  His vital
signs were stable and he was afebrile.  His postoperative
electrolytes were remarkable for a potassium of 3.7 and a
magnesium of 1.6, which were repleted.  The patient's belly
postoperatively was distended and appropriately tender and
the patient was continued NPO on postoperative day one.  On
postoperative day one the patient was also seen by the
orthopedics consult service who left recommendations for
nonoperative management.  The recommendations were for two
weeks nonweight bearing right lower extremity, out of bed to
chair followed by three months of touch down weight bearing
with a knee immobilizer and post dislocation precautions.
The orthopedic service also recommended anticoagulation,
however, this suggestion was to be considered in light of the
patient's history of subdural hematoma and other surgical
considerations.  The orthopedics service requested follow up
on this patient with Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name (STitle) 1022**] in his clinic the [**Location (un) 86**]
Orthopedic Group in approximately two weeks.

The medicine attending on the [**6-5**] commented that the
patient had done well after the surgery, which he had
tolerated well.  The patient received 2 units of packed red
blood cells and was in rapid atrial fibrillation.  On
postoperative day two the patient remained stable status post
cecotomy.  The Diltiazem drip was reduced to 15 and as the
patient had been in stable condition disposition to the
Vascular Intensive Care Unit floor was considered.  On the
next postoperative day the nutrition service was consulted to
provide recommendations in regard to the patient's calorie
and protein intake requirement.  Their recommendation was to
initiate total parenteral nutrition at 1.8 liters containing
210 grams of dextrose, 112 grams of amino acid and 40 grams
of fat.  Assuming that the patient's blood glucoses remained
within normal limits on this regimen the total parenteral
nutrition could be advanced to the goal rate.  On
postoperative day two the patient continued to be in stable
condition and in accordance with routine post surgical care
the patient's Foley catheter was discontinued.  A upright
kidney, ureters and bladder sinogram was also obtained,
however, this study was not able to elucidate the cause of
the patient's continuing abdominal distention.

On postoperative day three the patient continued to be in
stable condition and was given 20 mg of intravenous Lasix in
an effort to effect gentle diuresis in light of the patient's
recent surgery and likely volume overload given the
appearance of the patient's most recent chest x-ray as well
as his lung examination.  In light of the patient's
concerning persistent abdominal distention the
gastroenterology service was consulted on [**2166-6-7**].  The
recommendation of the gastroenterology service was for
decompressive colonoscopy and attempted decompressive tube
placement.  This procedure was performed by the
gastroenterology service and after the procedure it was
suggested by the gastroenterology service that the cecostomy
tube could be flushed vigorously to ensure that it was not
kinked or coiled in the cecum.  On the following day the
colonoscopy report taken from the day prior showed normal
mucosa without evidence of ischemia, cecostomy tube located
in the cecum perhaps coiled.  The tube flushed easily with
water to verify the identity of the tube.  The colonoscopist
also commented on their inability to place a decompressive
tube successfully.  Over the next two postoperative days the
patient continued to improve, however, his abdominal
distention continued to be relatively stable and persistent.

On postoperative day six a follow up KUB was obtained, which
did not show a clear cause of the patient's continued
distention.  On postoperative day number seven the patient
was continued on total parenteral nutrition, given another
dose of intravenous Lasix to which he diuresed well and he
was transferred to the floor on a telemetry bed in stable
condition.  Once on the floor the remainder of the [**Hospital 228**]
hospital course was marked by gradual return of bowel
function and reduction in abdominal distention.  Specifically
the patient tolerated anterograde Fleets enemas times two for
at least two consecutive days after which the patient's bowel
function appeared to return at which time the patient moved a
bowel spontaneously.  Other events during the patient's
tenure on the floor telemetry includes at least three
separate instances of acute shortness of breath generally
related to the patient's refusal to receive his standing
orders for Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizer treatments.  As
the patient has had multiple medical issues and due to his
advanced age of 82 the patient received extensive workups for
each of these episodes, which were successful in ruling out
myocardial infarction as well as new pulmonary embolism as
sources of the patient's acute shortness of breath.  Of note,
the patient has a long history of pulmonary embolus including
involving the upper, middle and lower lobes that was seen on
CT scan taken in the context of acute shortness of breath.
However, the appearance of these pulmonary emboli did not
appear to have acutely worsened and therefore conclusively
established as the cause of the patient's shortness of
breath.  The patient's episodes of shortness of breath were
clearly episodic and were relieved by nebulizer treatments.

Also of note the patient had positive cultures constituting
the following.  He had at least one blood culture growing out
staph aureus as well as coag negative staph.  In addition,
the patient had a urine culture that was positive for
Levofloxacin resistant, but Vancomycin sensitive
enterococcus.  In light of these culture data the patient was
started on Vancomycin intravenous at a dosage of 750 mg
b.i.d. on [**2164-6-20**].  Largely to treat the patient's coag
negative staph in his blood culture this regimen was intended
to continue for a 14 day course per Dr. [**First Name (STitle) 2819**].

Another issue for the patient on the floor was an acute
attack of pseudogout for which the rheumatology service was
consulted.  In accordance with the recommendations of that
service the patient was started on Vioxx and Colchicine for a
short course.  Prior to his discharge it was determined by
discussion with the rheumatology service that the Colchicine
could be discontinued after a few days of the patient's
discharge to rehabilitation and it was further decided that
the patient's Vioxx could be discontinued on the day of
discharge.  The patient's final other significant events
during his stay on the floor was the closure of his mid
abdominal wound, which had been treated for several day using
a V.A.C. sponge dressing.  This was effected approximately
four days prior to the patient's discharge and by the time of
the patient's discharge the wound was seen to be well
approximated with no breakdown erythema or signs of
infection.  The patient was discharged on [**2166-6-27**] with
appropriate instructions for follow up for the following
services, orthopedic surgery, rheumatology and
gastroenterology.  In addition appropriate instructions
regarding his medications, activity as well as dressing
changes was given to the rehabilitation center.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  The patient was in good condition at
the time of discharge.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Approved.






                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 19318**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 20242**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2166-6-27**]  08:55