Admission Date:  [**2132-4-1**]       Discharge Date:  [**2132-4-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2055-3-1**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77-year-old male with
a recent diagnosis of coronary artery disease at [**Hospital3 **] in [**2132-2-6**] with a stent times two to the
right coronary artery, stent to the left anterior descending
and an ejection fraction noted to be 40%, who presented with
the acute onset of shortness of breath.

The patient was his usual state of health until the afternoon
on admission around 4:30 p.m.  The patient was noted by his
wife that he was having difficulty breathing.  The patient
was getting ready to ride a bus to a friend's house when the
symptoms occurred.  There was no associated chest pain,
diaphoresis, light-headedness or palpitations.  The patient
was noted then to have nausea and vomiting times one that was
nonbloody.  EMS was called who found him down and
unresponsive with a blood pressure of 170/70, heart rate 130,
an electrocardiogram with left bundle branch block which is
old.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital6 2018**] where a chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema where he
was intubated.

In the Emergency Room, his blood pressure was noted to be
230/110, heart rate 133, respirations 36, and an oxygen
saturation of 89%.  He was intubated and was noted to be
foaming at the mouth.  He received sublingual Nitroglycerin
times one, followed by Nitroglycerin drip, Heparin, Aspirin,
Lasix 80 mg IV, then 40 mg IV, .................. and
.................. for initiation and intubation.

His electrocardiogram was significant for left bundle branch
block.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease status
post stent in [**2132-2-6**].  2.  Hypercholesterolemia.  3.
Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus times two months.  4.
Chronic renal insufficiency.  5.  Hypertension.   6.
Peripheral vascular disease.

MEDICATIONS:  Tento, Glyburide 10 b.i.d., Precose 50 t.i.d.,
Aspirin 81 q.d., NPH 14 q.a.m., Prevacid 30 q.d., regular
Insulin sliding scale, Lasix 20 b.i.d., Zestril 20 q.d.,
Atenolol, Plavix 75 q.d., Lipitor 10 q.d., Lopressor 25
b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Tobacco history of 80-100 pack-year history;
He quit seven years ago.  Occasional alcohol use.  The
patient denied drugs.  The patient is married without
children.  Primary care physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name (STitle) **] at [**Hospital3 **].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  The patient was intubated.
HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.
Pulmonary:  Rhonchi heard throughout.  Cardiovascular:
Regular, rate and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
Abdomen:  Nontender and nondistended.  Normoactive bowel
sounds.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities:  Positive 1+
pitting edema at the ankles.  No calf tenderness or cords.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 16.7, hematocrit 47.7, platelet
count 383; INR 1.4; bicarb 18, BUN 26, creatinine 1.3, anion
gap 24, sodium 144, chloride 102, CK #1 114, troponin less
than 0.3, MB 2; ABG 7.15, 66, 83 on assist control 700 x 12,
PEEP 8, 100%.

Chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema, question of left lower
lobe pneumonia.

TTE from [**2132-2-6**] showed mild global hypokinesis,
inferior hypokinesis, ejection fraction of 40%.

Catheterization results from [**2132-2-6**], is status post
right coronary artery stent times two and an left anterior
descending stent times one.  The left main artery was
nonobstructed.  The right coronary artery was dominant with
severe proximal and mid 90%, 40% mid-distal stenosis.  The
left anterior descending artery showed diffuse disease with
80% midstenosis after diagonal #2 with a focal 80% mid and
50% distal, diagonal #1 with a medium 70% ostial stenosis and
a 70% mid.  Diagonal #2 showed a medium 50% ostial stenosis.
The left circumflex artery showed diffuse disease.  Obtuse
marginal #1 and #2 were small with moderate diffuse disease,
and the left main artery was nonobstructed.

The patient had a two-vessel stenting with stents to the
right coronary artery and left anterior descending artery.

ASSESSMENT:  This is a 77-year-old male with a newly
diagnosed coronary artery disease, diabetes, and congestive
heart failure status post hypoxic respiratory arrest and
pulmonary edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the CCU
intubated for his acute episode of pulmonary edema.  It was
thought that it was multi-factorial, including possible acute
myocardial infarction (stent closure from in-stent
restenosis), diastolic dysfunction versus noncardiogenic
edema which was doubtful.

He was continued on a Nitroglycerin drip, given intravenous
Lasix and continued on mechanical ventilation.

The patient's first set of cardiac enzymes were negative.  A
stat bedside echocardiogram was with essentially old findings
but revealed moderate to severe regional left ventricular
systolic dysfunction.  Resting regional wall motion
abnormalities, included an inferolateral and apical akinesis
with hypokinesis elsewhere.  The ejection fraction was
estimated to be around 30%.

The left bundle branch block on his electrocardiogram was
old, as he was noted to have this in [**Month (only) 404**] as well.  He was
started on a Dopamine drip for his hypotension and continued
on Aspirin and Heparin drip, as well as Lopressor if his
blood pressure could tolerate it.

Also on admission, he spiked a temperature to 102.4??????, and
there was a new disappearance of his left hemidiaphragm with
a question of a left lower lobe pneumonia on chest x-ray.
His labile blood pressure was thought perhaps to be due to
sepsis.  He was therefore pancultured and started on
Ceftriaxone and Azythromax.

Also on admission, he was started on Mucomyst in anticipation
for cardiac catheterization the next morning in order to
evaluate if this is a restenosis.

For his diabetes, it was noted that he did have an elevated
glucose on admission; however, acetone was negative, and
there was evidence of DKA, although he did have a mild anion
gap acidosis which was likely partially due to dehydration.
He was continued on a regular Insulin sliding scale.  His
Glyburide was continued, but his NPH was held initially on
admission.

Famotidine was initiated for GI prophylaxis.  He underwent
placement of a left subclavian, as well as left a arterial
line on admission.

On the next morning, he underwent cardiac catheterization
which revealed an left anterior descending with a 90%
restenosis just proximal to the stent margin with moderate
diffuse in-stent restenosis, then 50% stenosis after the
first diagonal branch, and an ostial 60% stenosis at the
second diagonal branch.

Left ventriculography was not performed.  He underwent
successful PTCA, cutting balloon, as well as beta-brachy
therapy of the moderate in-stent restenosis within the mid
left anterior descending.  Finally angiography demonstrated
minimal residual stenosis, no dissection, and TIMI-3 flow.
He also had a moderately severe elevation of his pulmonary
wedge pressure and moderate pulmonary hypertension secondary
to left ventricular disease.

After his catheterization, he was continued on Plavix,
Aspirin, Lipitor and Metoprolol.  The Heparin was held
because he had experienced some upper GI bleeding which did
end up resolving.

For his pump, he was continued on intravenous Lasix.  He
continued to experience very labile blood pressures, and it
was a question of whether this was because of early sepsis
from his left lower lobe pneumonia.  He was continued on
Ceftriaxone, and Azithromycin was changed to Levaquin.  His
cultures were followed closely.

Eventually the Metoprolol was discontinued secondary to his
hypotension, and it was still unclear whether this was mostly
secondary to cardiogenic etiology or because of sepsis, as he
was experiencing very high temperature spikes up to 103??????.
His sugars also began to become very high, and he was started
on an Insulin drip by [**4-3**] in order to better control
his sugars.

Because he continued to spike temperatures, the Ceftriaxone
was discontinued and replaced with Vancomycin, and he was
continued on Vancomycin and Levof