Admission Date:  [**2174-11-1**]     Discharge Date:  [**2174-12-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2110-12-26**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHOR

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 63-year-old gentlemen
admitted to [**Hospital6 256**] on [**11-1**] as a transfer from [**Hospital 1474**] Hospital for coronary artery
bypass graft surgery.  He previously had approximately one
month of epigastric pain prompting him to go to the Emergency
Room where upon they found that his pain is cardiac in
origin.  Cardiac catheterization revealed three vessel
disease amenable to coronary artery bypass grafting and he
was transferred to [**Hospital6 256**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease, status post myocardial
infarction in [**2157**], status post non ST elevation myocardial
infarction on [**10-30**] of the present year with a
troponin maximum level of greater than 50.
3.  Diverticulitis.
4.  Asthma.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Heparin drip 16,000 units, nitro
drip 20 units, aspirin 325 mg po q.d., metoprolol 50 mg po
b.i.d., Aggrastat drip 12 cc per hour, Atorvastatin 10 mg po
q.d., Zantac 150 mg po b.i.d., oxazepam 15 mg q.h.s. prn.

ALLERGIES:  Reported as morphine.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His father died at the age 54 of a
myocardial infarction.  Father has a history of diabetes.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a former smoker, quit 20
years ago.  Formerly smoked four packs per day.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 100.5.  Heart rate
92.  Respiratory rate 18.  Blood pressure 108.74, oxygen
saturation 94% on two liters.  Weight 225 pounds.  General
appearance:  An obese white gentlemen, alert and oriented
times three in no apparent distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose
and throat:  Moist mucous membranes.  Oropharynx clear.
Neck:  No jugular venous distention, soft, no bruits.  Lungs:
Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  No wheezes, rhonchi or
rales.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm S1, S2, no
murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen:  Obese, soft, nontender
with positive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  2+ dorsalis pedis
pulses bilaterally.  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  There
is no oozing from his groin site from the recent cardiac
catheterization.

PERTINENT DATA TO ADMISSION:  Cardiac catheterization
performed the day previous on [**11-1**].  Left anterior
descending 80% mid stenosis, 90% stenosis of the diagonal,
left circumflex 100% stenosis, right coronary artery 99%
distal stenosis.  There was notable left ventricular
hypokinesis.  Estimated ejection fraction is 20%.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted
to Cardiac Surgery and went to the Operating Room with Dr.
[**First Name (STitle) 10102**] on [**2174-11-2**].  Patient had coronary artery
bypass of three vessels.  Left internal mammary artery to
left anterior descending.  Saphenous vein graft to OM and
saphenous vein graft to right coronary artery PD.  The
patient tolerated the procedure well.  Please see previously
dictated operative note for more details.  Patient was
transferred from the Operating Room to the Cardiac Surgery
Recovery Unit with atrial pacing on a milrinone and propofol
drips.

Patient was extubated on postoperative day number one but
remained on milrinone drip.  On postoperative day number two,
the patient began having episodes of atrial fibrillation with
rapid ventricular response with rates to the 140s.  He was
treated over the next several days with alternately
amiodarone, Lopressor and diltiazem.

On postoperative day number four, the patient had another
episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular
response with heart rates to the 190s.  It was accompanied by
respiratory distress which resulted in intubation.  The
patient was electrocardioverted but then required pressors to
maintain appropriate blood pressure.  On postoperative day
number five, the Electrophysiology Service was consulted and
said that the previous rhythms were atrial
fibrillation/aflutter and probably ventricular tachycardia.

On postoperative day number six, the patient had refractory
atrial fibrillation with increased cardiac output with
indexes ranging from 1.9 to 2.2.  He continued to require
increasing pressor support to maintain a systolic blood
pressure.  During this time, the patient remained intubated
and sedated.

By postoperative day number two, the patient had a low grade
fever and had a rising white blood cell count.  There was an
infiltrate evident on chest x-ray.  Infectious Disease was
consulted at this point.  By now, the patient was on tube
feeds.

Cultures from the rising white blood cell count revealed
Peptostreptococcus growing from the blood.  The patient
continued to spike fevers.  In the course of the work-up, the
fever work-up was noted to have a negative right upper
quadrant ultrasound and he was started on vancomycin,
ceftazidine and Flagyl.  Sputum grew out gram negative rods
and antibiotics were continued.

The patient's course continued in a light fashion with
intermittent episodes of atrial fibrillation requiring
electrocardioversion.  The patient continued to require
ventilatory support and entered a very slow weaning process.
By postoperative day number 23, the patient had received a
percutaneous tracheostomy and a #8 Portex was inserted.

EPS Service performed electrical studies for his refractory
atrial fibrillation on postoperative day number 21.  During
these studies, they produced inducible ventricular
tachycardia in anticipation of the need for implantation of
an automated internal cardiac defibrillator.

As cultures continued to return, it was found that the
patient had coag negative staphylococcus growing from his
blood which is resistant to oxacillin and methicillin.
Because of this, he was placed on vancomycin for 14 days.
All other antibiotics were stopped at this point.

After administration of the tracheostomy, the patient began a
very slow wean from pressure support over the next two weeks.
Because of the patient's prolonged need for ventilatory
support a percutaneous endoscopic gastrotomy tube was placed
by Interventional Radiology on [**11-28**].  Tube feeds were
administered through this tube.

On [**11-30**], it was decided to put the patient on Coumadin
for atrial fibrillation.  The patient continued to wean from
the vent until [**12-5**].  He was attempted to be fitted for
a Passy-Muir valve by the ORL Service.  He did not tolerate
this valve well and he continued to require ventilatory
support.  By [**2174-12-14**], the patient had finally weaned
off all his needs for pressure support.  Antibiotics were off
and he converted back to sinus rhythm. The patient was
transferred to the Patient Care Floor at this point.  At this
point in the patient's care, he would have been considered a
candidate for rehabilitation, but because of his insurance
coverage, he was not eligible for rehabilitation facilities
that would fit his needs.  Because of this, he was required
to remain in the hospital until he was able to be discharged
to home.

The patient continued to improve and began ambulating once
moved to the Patient Care Floor.  Ambulation progressed from
being able to move from bed to chair to being able to walk at
a level 5 by the time of discharge.  Because the patient had
inducible ventricular fibrillation, he was brought to the EP
Laboratory for placement of an automated internal cardiac
defibrillator.  This was performed on [**2174-12-16**].  The
patient tolerated the procedure without problems.

At about the same time, the patient was again tried with a
Passy-Muir valve which he tolerated very well.  His
tracheostomy was downsized from a #8 to a #6 and ultimately a
#4 Portex tracheostomy and fitted with a Portex valve.

On [**12-28**], the patient's tracheostomy tube was removed.
The patient tolerated this without problems.  By [**2174-12-29**], the patient was tolerating po.  His tracheostomy was
removed.  He was ambulating at a level 5 and felt
sufficiently capable of being discharged to home.  Of note,
because the patient had been in sinus rhythm for multiple
weeks, once the Coumadin is held for placement of the AICD,
it was not restarted again.  The patient remained i