Admission Date:  [**2137-10-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2137-10-11**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:

Service:  ICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 63-year-old female with a
history of non-small cell right-sided lung cancer, status
post pneumonectomy with right neck mass, status post
chemotherapy and radiation therapy, complicated by esophageal
stricture, who presented with the sudden onset of shortness
of breath at night, accompanied by chest tightness, reporting
no fevers or increased secretions or leg swelling.  She
denies any headaches, visual changes, or focal weakness.

She was taken to the Emergency Room where room air saturation
was 75%, and was placed on ventilator mask with good result.
Suspicion for a pulmonary embolism was high, and the patient
was heparinized with a negative head CT.  The patient acutely
decompensated with a PCO2 of 56, was placed on mask
ventilation, and remained more stable.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   Review of systems was notable for
anorexia, decreased mobility, and the patient reported
difficulty breathing on the night prior to admission.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Past medical history notable for
non-small cell stage III lung cancer, right upper lobe,
diagnosed in [**2129**]; no metastatic disease in brain or skeleton
or abdomen, vocal cord paralysis, status post tracheostomy in
[**2136-9-16**], esophageal stricture, status post frequency
dilations; last one being [**2137-10-2**], hypertension, and
right arm pain.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications include Taxol, Megace,
Duragesic, and Neurontin.

ALLERGIES:   Allergy to IODINE.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  A 40-pack-year history of smoking.  She
lives with her husband; quit seven years ago.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On admission vital
signs were temperature of 101.3, blood pressure of 129/97,
heart rate in the 90s, respiratory rate in the 20s, satting
99% on 100%, FIO2 of 0.6, ventilator settings of synchronized
intermittent mandatory ventilation 25 X 400.  She was awake,
alert, cachectic.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat was
unremarkable.  Lungs had coarse rhonchi, with some striatus
upper airway sounds.  Heart was regular, tachycardic, with no
murmur appreciated.  The abdomen was benign, guaiac-negative.
No edema on extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION: Laboratories
showed a white blood cell count of 10.9, hematocrit of 36.5,
platelets of 601.  Sodium of 137, potassium of 2.5,
bicarbonate of 29, chloride of 95, blood urea nitrogen of 22,
creatinine of 0.9, and glucose of 144.  First creatine kinase
was 20.  Arterial blood gas on presentation was 7.42, with a
PO2 of 180, and a PCO2 of 48.  After respiratory
decompensation on a setting of synchronized intermittent
mandatory ventilation of 25 X 400 with 0.6, arterial blood
gas was 7.29, a PO2 of 219, PCO2 of 65.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray showed patchy infiltrates in
the left lung zone, with a question of failure.

Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 130, with a
right bundle-branch block.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was heparinized for likely
pulmonary embolus versus pneumonia.  The patient was covered
with levofloxacin and Flagyl.

A CT angiogram was considered; however, at this point, would
not change management.  The patient was continued on
intermittent mandatory ventilation, still spiking
temperatures.  The patient ruled out for a myocardial
infarction.  A CT angiogram was pursued, though with her
fevers, this was likely a community-acquired pneumonia.  CT
angiogram was negative for pulmonary embolus.  Heparin was
discontinued; however, she continued to have increasing
respiratory distress with the white count slowly increasing
up to 15,000.  Levofloxacin and Flagyl were continued,
however, and the decision was made to continue with full
support to see if the patient would turn around from her
increasing respiratory distress.  Blood urea nitrogen and
creatinine started to increase.  An arterial line was placed
for further blood pressure and ventilation management.

Respiratory distress progressively worsened with an oxygen
saturation of 89%, an FIO2 of 60.  White count continued to
increase to 26.3, with a chest x-ray suggestive of a heavily
consolidated multilobar pneumonia on the left.  The patient
began to become increasingly agitated, her breathing
progressively worsening, and renal failure did also
progressively worsen.

After numerous discussions with the family, and taking into
considerations the patient's wishes, the patient was made do
not resuscitate and ultimately comfort measures only.
Morphine was initiated.  The ventilator was discontinued
after the patient was comfortable, and the patient expired at
7:01 p.m. on [**2137-10-11**].  The family did not request an
autopsy.

                          DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) 251**] 12-660



Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 98138**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2138-3-11**]  12:51
T:  [**2138-3-11**]  14:45
JOB#:  [**Job Number 108446**]
