Admission Date:  [**2143-6-4**]       Discharge Date:  [**2143-6-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2094-1-20**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CARDIAC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 49-year-old female, a
patient of Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 122**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], with a prior history of an MI
in her late-20s with a long history of atypical chest pain.
The patient was referred for an ETT due to complaints of
chest pain, dyspnea on exertion, PND, four-pillow orthopnea,
bilateral lower extremity edema, and palpitations.  On her
Persantine-ETT, she had no symptoms or EKG changes, but
imaging revealed a moderate reversible defect in the basilar
portion of the inferolateral wall, with an ejection fraction
of 54%.  The patient was referred for cardiac
catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Hypercholesterolemia, 2) Insulin
dependent diabetes mellitus, 3) Significant tobacco use,
three packs per day since age 11, 4) Status post MI, 5) Lower
extremity neuropathy, 6) Severe peripheral vascular disease,
7) Current cocaine and ETOH use, 8) Depression, 9) Anxiety,
10) Carotid artery disease.  Ultrasound in [**2143-5-12**] showed
60-69% right internal carotid artery stenosis and a normal
left, 11) History of ectopic pregnancy, 12) Status post
hysterectomy, 13) Status post tonsillectomy, 14) Status post
small bowel obstruction with laparotomy and lysis of
adhesions, 15) History of melena.

ALLERGIES:  Codeine which results in a rash.

PREOPERATIVE MEDICATIONS:  1) aspirin 81 mg po qd, 2) Tricor
160 mg po qd, 3) atenolol 25 mg po qd, 4) Flexeril 10 mg po
qd prn, 5) trazodone 50 mg po q hs prn, 6) Zoloft 200 mg po q
hs, 7) Benadryl 50 mg po q hs prn, 8) Klonopin 0.5 mg po q am
and 1 mg po q hs prn, 9) NPH Insulin 15 U q am and 15-20 U q
hs, 10) Regular Insulin 15 U q am and 10 U at dinner.

PREOPERATIVE LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 11.1,
hematocrit 44.3, blood sugar 476, potassium 3.6, BUN 11,
creatinine 0.6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted and taken to the
Cardiac Catheterization Lab on [**2143-6-4**] which showed
two-vessel coronary artery disease with left ventricular
diastolic dysfunction, mild pulmonary hypertension.  The
coronary artery anatomy showed 50% LAD proximal stenosis,
mild luminal irregularities of the left circumflex, 70% RCA
stenosis.  A stent was deployed into the Right coronary
artery, and procedure was complicated by a proximal edge
dissection, grade C, requiring emergent CABG.

Vital signs prior to transfer to the operating room - pulse
65, blood pressure 99/59, respiratory rate 16, oxygen
saturation on 2 liters 98%.  Heart - S1, S2 with a II/VI
systolic murmur at left lower sternal border.  Lungs with
inspiratory and expiratory rhonchi bilaterally.

The patient was taken emergently to the operating room on
[**2143-6-4**] by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] for a CABG x 2 with LIMA to LAD,
and SVG to distal RCA.  The patient tolerated the procedure
well and was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit in stable
condition on a milrinone infusion.  The patient remained
intubated overnight due to hypoxia and agitation.  The
patient had an adequate cardiac index on milrinone.

On postoperative day #1, the patient was weaned and extubated
from mechanical ventilation, and the milrinone was weaned
off.  After extubation, the patient had a respiratory
acidosis which responded to aggressive chest PT and good pain
control.  The patient was also noted to have an elevated
white blood cell count to 21; however, the patient was
afebrile.  The patient was started on diuretics with good
response, and the patient was started on her antianxiety
medications.

On postoperative day #1, the patient requested to see an
addiction counselor about her history of cocaine abuse.  The
patient's PA catheter was removed.  The patient was
transferred from the Intensive Care Unit to the regular floor
on postoperative day #2 in stable condition.  The patient
began ambulating with physical therapy.  The patient had
difficulty ambulating with physical therapy due to pain and
anxiety, requiring stopping multiple times, and ultimately
pain medication.  The patient remained hemodynamically stable
throughout.

On postoperative day #3, the patient was noted to have
crackles bilaterally, as well as significant rhonchi.  The
patient was unable to effectively use incentive spirometer.
The patient was medicated for pain and received albuterol
nebulizer treatments by respiratory therapy, and aggressive
chest pulmonary toilet during the course of the day on
postoperative day #3.  The patient was progressively hypoxic
in spite of aggressive pulmonary toilet.  The patient's
oxygen saturations continued to decline.

Over the evening on postoperative day #3, the patient was
progressively confused, and on the morning of postoperative
day #4, the patient was quite hypoxic, and the decision was
made to transfer the patient back to the Intensive Care Unit
for pulmonary toilet and monitoring of pulmonary status.
Chest x-ray at this time showed CHF, no effusions, and no
pneumothorax.  The patient was given more aggressive
diuretics, aggressive pulmonary toilet, and pain medication.
Over the course of the day on postoperative day #4 and
postoperative day #5, the patient progressively improved.  On
postoperative day #5, the patient was able to maintain
adequate oxygen saturation on 4 liters nasal cannula.

On postoperative day #6, the patient was deemed stable to
transfer back to Far-2 where she began working with physical
therapy.  She remained hemodynamically stable with good pain
control.  On postoperative day #5, the patient completed a
level 5 with physical therapy, able to walk 500' and climb
one flight of stairs, not requiring any oxygen.  However, it
was noted that the patient's oxygen saturation was in the
high-80s to mid-90s.  During physical therapy, the patient
was asymptomatic, not complaining of shortness of breath, or
fatigue.  It was felt that due to patient's longstanding
smoking history, this was probably baseline for her.  On
postoperative day #6, the patient was anxious to be
discharged to home, and the patient was cleared for
discharge.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  T-max 98.9, pulse 92, sinus rhythm,
blood pressure 107/63, respiratory rate 18, room air oxygen
saturation 93%, weight 66.6 kg.  The patient weighed 72.2 kg
preoperatively.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 9.8, hematocrit
35.4, platelet count 478, sodium 135, potassium 4.5, chloride
96, bicarb 31, BUN 11, creatinine 0.4, glucose 223.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  Neurologically, the patient was awake, alert,
oriented x 3, nonfocal, very pleasant.  Heart - regular rate
and rhythm, no rub, no murmur.  Respiratory - breath sounds
were coarse bilaterally with scattered rhonchi bilaterally,
no wheezes.  GI - positive bowel sounds, soft, nontender,
nondistended, tolerating a regular diet.  Sternal incision
was clean and dry without erythema and no drainage.  The
patient had previously had Dermabond applied to the lower
portion of her sternum for some drainage and has not had any
drainage since.  Right lower extremity vein harvest site was
clean and dry.  Steri-Strips were intact.  There was no
erythema or drainage.  Extremities had 1+ pitting edema.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1) lopressor 50 mg po bid, 2) lasix
20 mg po bid x 7 days, 3) potassium chloride 20 mEq po bid x
7 days, 4) colace 100 mg po bid, 5) Zantac 150 mg po bid, 6)
enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg po qd, 7) captopril 12.5 mg po
tid, 8) Zoloft 200 mg po qd, 9) Klonopin 1 mg po bid, 10)
Flovent MDI, 11) Serevent MDI, 12) Combivent MDI, 13)
dilaudid 2-4 mg po q 6 h prn, 14) trazodone 50 mg po q hs
prn, 15) NPH and regular Insulin per patient's previous
regimen.

DISPOSITION:  The patient is to be discharged to home in
stable condition.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  1) Coronary artery disease.  2) Status
post stent to right coronary artery, complicated by
dissection requiring emergent coronary artery bypass
grafting.  3) Coronary artery bypass graft x 2.  4) Insulin
dependent diabetes mellitus.  5) Postoperative
hypoxia/congestive heart failure, resolved.  6) Hypertension.
7) Anxiety.  8) History of substance abus