Admission Date:  [**2103-9-22**]     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2067-3-14**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 36-year-old woman with
a history of seizures who presents with lethargy and
somnolence following a Tegretol overdose.  The patient has
apparently has been very depressed for the past few days.
Had a fight with her boyfriend this morning and took 50 to
100 Tegretol tablets.  She then fell asleep and slept until
5 p.m. when she awoke and took a cab to the [**Hospital1 346**] Emergency Department.

She arrived in the Emergency Department crying but not
somnolent.  Her speech and gait were normal, and she was able
to relate this history.  Over the course of a few minutes to
hours the patient became increasingly less responsive and
received 25 g of activated charcoal and nasogastric tube
which she proceeded to vomit up and was given 50 additional
rounds.  The Tegretol level was 18.8.  The patient had also
complained of left arm numbness and chest pain before
becoming obtunded.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature 98.3,
heart rate 72, blood pressure 142/65, 98% on room air,
respirations 10.  In general, obtunded, opened eyes to loud
voice but rarely responds with consistency.  Head, ears,
nose, eyes and throat revealed atraumatic.  Pupils were
equally round and reactive 5 mm to 3 mm bilaterally.
Extraocular movements were intact.  Able to follow
left-to-right and right-to-left.  No nystagmus.  No
dysconjugate gaze.  The oropharynx was moist.  The neck was
supple.  Respiratory was clear bilaterally.  No crackles.
Some coarse sounds.  Good air movement on deep inspiration.
Heart had a respiratory rate, normal first heart sound and
second heart sound.  No murmurs, rubs, gallops, third heart
sound, or fourth heart sound.  The abdomen was soft, had
decreased bowel sounds.  Extremities had no clubbing,
cyanosis or edema.  Neurologically, responded to loud voice
occasionally by opening eyes.  At 7:30 p.m. the patient was
able to speak a few coherent words and answer questions then
became much less responsive with minimal response to pain.
The patient was able to demonstrated an intact extraocular
movements, but the rest of the cranial nerves, motor, and
sensory examination could not be completed secondary to
patient lack of cooperation.  Reflexes were 2+ in the upper
extremities bilaterally.  Toes were downgoing bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell count 11,
hematocrit 39.8, platelets 229.  Chem-7 as follows:
Sodium 140, potassium 3.9, chloride 102, bicarbonate 28,
blood urea nitrogen 12, creatinine 0.8, glucose of 112.
AST 34, ALT of 21, amylase 87, lipase 11.  Calcium 9.5,
phosphate 3.3, magnesium 1.9.  Serum toxicology screen
revealed negative aspirin, negative alcohol, negative
tricyclic antidepressant, negative barbiturates, negative
benzodiazepines.  Carbamazepine level 18.8 at 7:30 p.m. on
[**9-22**].

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus
rhythm at 75 with normal sinus mechanism, 0-degree axis,
normal intervals.  No bundle branch block.  Biphasic T wave
in V1.  No ST-T segment changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  A 36-year-old woman with a history of
seizure disorder, on Tegretol, admitted status post overdose
secondary to depression and desire to take own life.

1.  TEGRETOL OVERDOSE:  Slow and erratic absorption from the
gastrointestinal tract and liver metabolites, is also
pharmacologically active.  Therefore, serial Tegretol levels
were taken every three to four hours until two declining
levels were obtained, and the last level was in the
therapeutic range of 4 to 12.  Charcoal was stopped when the
Tegretol level was less than 20 and moving in a decreasing
direction.  The patient was electively intubated but pulled
her endotracheal tube out, so this could not be continued.
Intravenous fluids were given to maintain adequate perfusion.

2.  ASPIRATION OF CHARCOAL:  The patient had a good oxygen
saturation of 99% on room air after some small of charcoal.
She remained afebrile and had a clear lung examination and
normal white blood cell count.  She received aggressive
suction for secretions and was written for p.r.n. nebulizers.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient complained of some chest
pain on admission which was reproduced on examination, was
increased with inspiration, and the patient had a negative
electrocardiogram times two.  The etiology, therefore, was
probably viral or chest wall related.  Creatine kinases and
troponins were negative.  The patient had no further symptoms
throughout her course.

4.  NEUROLOGY:  We continued to watch the Tegretol levels
which decreased and asked Neurology's input as to when to
restart the Tegretol, and question whether Tegretol was the
best choice of anti-seizure medication was also addressed.
The result was that the patient should be started on 200 mg
b.i.d. to t.i.d. of Tegretol once the levels decreased to the
normal range.

5.  URINE OUTPUT:  Tegretol overdose can result in renal
failure.  Therefore, urine output was watched closely, and
the patient was hydrated to keep the urine output greater
than 60 cc per hour using both 400 cc to 500 cc of normal
saline.

6.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION:  Diet was advanced as
tolerated.

7.  HEMATOLOGY:  The patient's hematocrit was stable
throughout her course.

8.  COMMUNICATION:  The patient's mother.

9.  DISPOSITION:  The patient went to locked unit of [**Hospital **]
Hospital.  She initially refused the transfer but was
sectioned and then accepted the transfer with 2 mg of Ativan
p.o.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Tegretol 200 mg p.o. t.i.d.
2.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  Motrin 500 mg to 600 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n.





                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3795**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5476**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2103-11-30**]  16:00
T:  [**2103-12-4**]  07:03
JOB#:  [**Job Number 35272**]
