Admission Date: [**2130-5-30**]        Discharge Date: [**2130-6-8**]


Service:  MED


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 83 year old female
with a history of myelodysplastic syndrome, untreated,
hemorrhoids, bright red blood per rectum, previously refusing
work-up, complaining of weakness and shortness of breath.
Because of the weakness and shortness of breath, she called
EMS.  Her saturations were 92 percent on room air, 100
percent on non rebreather, heart rate was 132.  She was
transferred to the [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Room.  In the Emergency Room, she was found to be
tachycardiac to 134, febrile at 103.5 and hemodynamically
stable but hypoxic at 88 percent on room air.

Work-up revealed a hematocrit of 15 with guaiac positive
stools.  The patient reports ongoing hemorrhoid bleeding for
some time and diarrhea.  OMR notes change in bowel habits;
thin stool.  The patient appears to have denied work-up.
Reportedly increasing shortness of breath, especially on
exertion over the last weeks and months.  Denies light
headedness, dizziness, shortness of breath, chest pain.
Denies fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, no dysuria,
frequency or hesitancy.  Denies pain, only fatigue and
weakness and feels cold.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Myelodysplastic syndrome, secondary to
myelofibrosis, refused treatment in the past.

History of bright red blood per rectum.  History of
hemorrhoids

Granuloma in the left lower lobe on chest x-ray.

Spinal stenosis.

Glaucoma.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.


MEDICATIONS:
1. Anusol.
2. Sonata.
3. Timoptic.
4. Tylenol.


FAMILY HISTORY:  Mom passed away from gastric cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Denies tobacco, alcohol and lives with
husband.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs 100.7 temperature; heart
rate of 116; blood pressure 117/54; oxygenating 93 percent on
two liters. General:  Fragile, chronically ill-appearing, non
toxic, in no acute distress.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal,
round, and reactive to light and accommodation.  Conjunctiva
pale.  Extraocular movements intact.  Heart:  Tachycardiac,
regular rhythm, systolic ejection murmur heard over the left
lower sternal border, radiating to the axilla.  Lungs:
Rhonchorus breath sounds and crackles two-thirds of the way
up bilaterally.  No wheezing.  Breath sounds decreased at the
left base.  Abdomen:  Bowel sounds present, soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Guaiac positive.  Brown stool.  Extremities:
2 plus pitting edema.  Neurologic: Nonfocal.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count of 2.3; hematocrit
of 15.6; platelets of 87; INR of 1.3; PT 14.3; PTT 34.1.
Sodium of 140; potassium of 4.0; chloride 104; bicarbonate of
22; BUN 13; creatinine .8; glucose of 135.  Urinalysis showed
positive nitrates, negative blood, negative leukocytes, 0 to
2 red blood cells, 11 to 20 white blood count, few bacteria.
Less than 1 epithelial.  Lactate was .08.

Chest x-ray was consistent with congestive heart failure, a
left pleural effusion.  Electrocardiogram was normal sinus
rhythm at 140.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Gastrointestinal bleed: The patient was
noted to have a hematocrit of 15 and positive guaiac stools;
hence, the patient was transferred to the medical Intensive
Care Unit for further and close monitoring.  The patient was
then transfused five units of packed red blood cells for very
low hematocrit.  She responded appropriately to the five
units of packed red blood cells and gastroenterology was
consulted for further work-up of her gastrointestinal bleed.
She had a nasogastric tube lavage which was negative for an
upper gastrointestinal source of the bleed.  She was placed
on intravenous Protonix twice a day.  She was typed and
crossed and had two peripheral large bores intravenous
placed.  The patient had an esophagogastroduodenoscopy which
was remarkable for mild erythema in the antrum. She had a
colonoscopy which was only remarkable for grade II internal
hemorrhoids.  Gastroenterology recommended a small bowel
follow through as an outpatient, since there was no obvious
source of bleeding from her colonoscopy. Gastroenterology
signed off the case.  We continued to follow her on the floor
and continued to check for guaiac in her stools, without any
further evidence of bleeding.  Her guaiac positive stools
were likely secondary to internal hemorrhoids. She will have
outpatient follow-up with gastroenterology and have a small
bowel follow through as an outpatient.

Congestive heart failure:  The patient, on admission, was
noted to be in congestive heart failure.  Her chest x-ray
showed pulmonary congestion.  She was getting five units of
red blood cells which further worsened her congestion,
necessitating supplemental oxygen.  While in the Intensive
Care Unit, she was given Lasix with goals of negative one to
two liters, to facilitate the patient's diuresis.  An echo
was done to further evaluate her congestive heart failure.
She was noted to have normal left atrium, normal right
atrium. Her left ventricle was noted to have an ejection
fraction of 50 percent. Wall thickness is mildly thickened
with mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy, normal
cavity size and systolic function.  Her right ventricle was
mildly dilated and showed ventricular systolic function was
depressed.  She had mild tricuspid regurgitation, mild mitral
regurgitation and moderate pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension.  With these findings, we thought that her
congestive heart failure might be due to possible pulmonary
embolism or just the pulmonary artery hypertension as a
consequence of her emphysematous disease, due to her remote
history of smoking.  A CTA was done to rule out a pulmonary
embolism and it was negative and did not show any evidence of
pulmonary embolus.  Hence, the patient's right ventricular
dysfunction was attributed to her moderate pulmonary artery
systolic hypertension.  For that reason, the patient was put
on Captopril 6.25 mg three times a day which she tolerated
well and transitioned over to Lisinopril 2.5 mg q. Day upon
discharge, which she tolerated well. Prior to discharge, the
patient had only crackles on the left side and on the right
base, as opposed to presentation when she had crackles two-
thirds of the way up in both fields.

Anemia:  We followed her hematocrit on a daily basis and it
continued to decline.  The patient does have a history of
myelodysplastic syndrome and possibly is in the stage where
she has become transfusion dependent.  Despite the five units
of packed red blood cells that was given on admission, to
which she responded well to, she had continued to have a
decline in her hematocrit.  Her anemia was worked up and was
noted to be multi-factorial.  She was given Cyanocobalamin
1000 mcg intramuscular q. Day while in the hospital and was
also placed on iron supplements, because of the low iron.
She will need further outpatient management with
hematologist/oncologist.  She was last seen by Dr.  _______
in Clinic and was given her number to schedule an appointment
for follow-up and further treatment of her myelodysplastic
syndrome.

Urosepsis:  The patient was noted to have urinary tract
infection with pan sensitive Klebsiella and was noted to have
E. Coli in her blood cultures.  E. Coli was pan sensitive.
She was treated with Levofloxacin 500 mg q. Day and
subsequently defervesced and remained afebrile. She is to
have a full course of 14 day treatment of Levofloxacin 500 mg
q. Day.

Pancytopenia:  Likely secondary to her history of
myelodysplastic syndrome and consequent bone marrow
myelofibrosis.  Her platelet counts, while in house remained
stable; however, her hematocrit had continued to decline
despite five units of blood transfusion.  She will need
further outpatient management by hematology/oncology.  She
may need further blood transfusions.  No further work-up was
done while in house.

Pulmonary:  The patient was noted to have a chronic left
lower lobe effusion upon admission.  With the five units of
packed red blood cells that was given, the patient went into
further congestive heart failure and her left lower pleural
effusion grew in size.  Thoracentesis was done without any
complications.  Cytology was sent and laboratory chemistries
