Admission Date:  [**2180-1-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2180-1-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2109-10-15**]       Sex:  M

Service:  NEUROSURGERY
HISTORY AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient is a
70-year-old white man who was in his usual state of health,
who fell onto his forehead and knees in the beginning of
[**Month (only) 404**].  The patient was seen by EMTs at his home.  He
denies any weakness or numbness or paresthesias.  There were
reports having tripped over his shoes.  Since the patient has
had increased difficulty with walking, including a shuffling
gait with instability and weakness, he has had multiple
falls.  The EMTs were called because at this time the patient
could not stand back up and the patient had difficulties with
his memory and alertness.  The patient denies any focal
weakness except for bilateral knee weakness.  He denies any
vomiting, photophobia or meningismus, and he reports
difficulty drinking V8 juice.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   Includes hypertension, gout,
myocardial infarction, neuropathy, Type II diabetes,
arthritis.  There is a history of a gastrointestinal bleed,
and asthma.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:   None

ALLERGIES:   ASA, egg white, sulfa, penicillin.  These cause
a [**Last Name (LF) **], [**First Name3 (LF) **] report.

PRE-HOSPITAL MEDICATIONS:  Allopurinol 10 mg one tablet once
daily, Diovan 160 mg one tablet once daily, DiaBeta 5 mg two
tablets in the morning and two tablets in the evening, Prozac
20 mg once daily, Lipitor 80 mg once daily, Norvasc 10 mg
once daily, Serevent two puffs once daily, Betoptic, Vanceril
two puffs once daily.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   The patient is afebrile, blood
pressure 127/62, rate of 67.  The patient is in no acute
distress.  His speech is fluent.  He is conversant, with no
aphasia.  He is alert and oriented x 3.  Repetition and
naming is intact.  He has no left-right confusion.  The head
is normocephalic, atraumatic.  Ears, nose and throat are
clear.  The neck is supple and nontender.  There is no
lymphadenopathy or bruits.  Cardiac examination shows a
regular rate and rhythm with a normal S1 and S2, and no
murmurs, gallops or rubs.  The chest is clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdominal examination shows soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Extremity examination reveals a bruise of the
left knee.  Neurological examination shows visual fields
full, extraocular movements intact, no nystagmus.  The face
is symmetric.  Trigeminal branches I, II and III are
symmetric.  The patient is hard of hearing, right greater
than left.  The uvula is midline.  The tongue is midline.
The sternocleidomastoid and trapezius are symmetric.  Motor
examination shows, on the right and left respectively,
interossei 4- and 4-, wrist flexors 4 and 4, wrist extensors
4 and 4, triceps 5- and 4, biceps 5 and 4+, deltoids 5 and 5,
iliopsoas 4 and 5-, quadriceps 4 and 4+, hamstrings 4+ and
5-, gastrocnemius 5- and 5, anterior tibialis 4 and 5,
extensor hallucis longus 4 and 5.  There was a left-sided
drift.  Reflex examination is symmetric and 2+/4 in upper and
lower extremities bilaterally, including biceps, triceps, and
pronator reflexes and, in the lower extremities, including
the patellar and Achilles tendon reflexes.  The toes are
downgoing bilaterally.  There is no clonus.  There is no
[**Doctor Last Name 937**].  Sensory examination shows light touch and
pinprick intact in the bilateral upper and lower extremities,
with diminished vibratory sensation at the mid-calf and
below.

LABORATORY DATA:   Reveal a white count of 15.2, hematocrit
of 40.9, platelets 245, with 73% neutrophils, 18%
lymphocytes.  Chem 7 shows a sodium of 140, potassium 5.6,
chloride 114, CO2 22, BUN 41, creatinine 1.5, glucose 122.
INR is 1.1, and PTT is 28.  Outside CT shows a right-sided
chronic/subacute subdural hematoma from the base of the
frontal lobe to the convexity.  There is a small area of
acute bleed at the  mid-medial region. Dimensions are 2 cm
wide x 8.9 cm from the caudal to rostral edges.  There is a
septation in the middle of the subdural hematoma.  There is a
3 mm right-to-left midline shift.  There are no other
subdural hematomas or intraparenchymal hematomas,
subarachnoid hematomas, or intraventricular hematomas.  The
basal cisterns appear open.  The left lateral ventricle was
larger than the right lateral ventricle.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:   This patient is a 70-year-old man with
a subacute/chronic right frontoparietal subdural hematoma
with a small acute component.  There is a small midline
shift.  Neurologic examination is with focal findings,
including a left lower extremity greater than upper
extremity.  Plan is to admit the patient to the [**Hospital Ward Name 517**]
Intensive Care Unit, to check admission laboratory values, to
start Dilantin, to have intracranial bleed precautions , finger
blood sticks with sliding scale
regular insulin, to have a bedside burr hole drainage
tomorrow in the Intensive Care Unit, to get consent, and to
discuss with Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **].

HOSPITAL COURSE:   On hospital day two, a bedside placement
of a drain was performed, a right parietal twist drill
drainage of the subdural hematoma.  There were no
complications, and the patient tolerated the procedure well.
He continued to do well, and on hospital day four, the
patient was transferred from the Intensive Care Unit to the
Neurosurgical floor, CC7.  The patient continued to do well
on the floor.  His mobility restrictions were liberalized,
with head of bed allowed to 60 degrees.

The patient was seen by Physical Therapy and was felt to be
an excellent candidate for acute level rehabilitation to
return him to his prior high level of functioning.  The
patient was accepted on [**2180-1-25**], at the [**Hospital **]
Rehabilitation facility and discharge was planned for 11
o'clock on [**2180-1-26**].

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:   Allopurinol 100 mg by mouth three
times a day, Diovan 160 mg by mouth once daily, DiaBeta 5 mg
two tablets by mouth every morning and also two tablets by
mouth every evening, Prozac 20 mg by mouth twice a day,
Lipitor 80 mg by mouth once daily, Dilantin 100 mg by
mouth/intravenously three times a day, Norvasc 10 mg by mouth
once daily, lasix 40 mg by mouth once daily, Zebeta 5 mg by
mouth once daily and to hold if systolic blood pressure less
than 110 or heart rate less than 60, Zantac 150 mg by mouth
twice a day, Serevent two puffs once daily, Vanceril two
puffs, Betoptic, Xalatan one drop to each eye daily at
bedtime, sliding scale regular insulin with every four hours
checks, with a finger stick blood glucose of 0-60, give 1 amp
of G-50 and call the house officer, blood glucose of 61-181,
do nothing, blood glucose of 151-200, give two units of
regular insulin, for blood glucose of 201-250, give four
units, for 251-300 give six units, for 301-350 give eight
units, for 351-400 give 12 units, and greater than 401 give
12 units.  Zebeta 5 mg by mouth once daily.  As noted, the
patient may take his own Zebeta that he supplies.  Tylenol
650 mg by mouth every four to six hours as needed.

FOLLOW UP:  The patient is to follow up in four weeks with
Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] and to call Dr.[**Name (NI) 14510**] office at [**Telephone/Fax (1) 1669**] to
schedule this appointment.  Also call the same number to
coordinate having the head CT done prior to this appointment.
To follow up with Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] at [**Hospital1 346**].




                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 125**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]  M.D. [**MD Number(1) **]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 23484**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2180-1-26**]  00:07
T:  [**2180-1-26**]  00:46
JOB#:  [**Job Number 44192**]



