Admission Date:  [**2197-8-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2197-9-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2173-1-19**]     Sex:  M


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 24-year-old
male with a past medical history of obesity and obstructive
sleep apnea who presented with complaints of increased
swelling and a neck mass times one and half weeks.  The
six weeks prior to admission when he was operated on for the
removal of a lipoma.  The operation occurred without
incident, and the patient did well.

Approximately one and a half weeks prior to admission the
patient noticed increased pain and swelling in the lateral
aspect of his neck on the left side.  He presented to the
managed conservatively with pain management.  However, the
pain and swelling did not resolve.  The patient then began to
experience fevers and difficulty swallowing and difficulty
turning his head.  The patient has not had difficulty
breathing.  He denied trauma, insect bites, or sick contacts.
[**Name (NI) **] presents for evaluation of his expanding neck mass.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Obesity.
2.  Obstructive sleep apnea.
3.  Asthma.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Home medications include
albuterol.

ALLERGIES:  There were no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his girlfriend and
works at [**Hospital6 **].  He denied smoking, drug or
alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history was remarkable for diabetes
mellitus in multiple first-degree relatives.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
in the Emergency [**Hospital1 **] revealed vital signs of temperature
of 103.9, heart rate 108, respiratory rate 20, blood pressure
156/60.  In general, the patient was a morbidly obese
African-American male sitting in a chair, breathing with some
effort, but in no apparent distress.  Head, ears, nose, eyes
and throat examination revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.
Pupils were equal and reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles
were intact.  Neck examination revealed a warm mass posterior
to the left ear about 20 cm X 8 cm long.  Pulmonary
examination revealed decreased breath sounds throughout.
Coronary examination was tachycardic, normal first heart
sound and second heart sound.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.
The abdomen was obese, soft, nontender, and nondistended,
with no rebounding, guarding or hepatosplenomegaly, and there
were bowel sounds times four.  Extremity examination revealed
2+ peripheral pulses.  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Admission laboratories were
white blood cell count 19.1, hemoglobin 12.7,
hematocrit 35.7, platelets 215.  Sodium 131, potassium 4.6,
chloride 92, bicarbonate 23, blood urea nitrogen 10,
creatinine 0.9.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   CT scan of the neck revealed a splenius
capitus myositis and cellulitis overlying with fluid tracking
between plains.  There was no evidence of abscess at that
time.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  ENDOCRINE:  The patient was newly diagnosed with diabetes
mellitus.  He was treated with sliding-scales which were
adjusted throughout his hospital stay.  During his course in
the Intensive Care Unit he was maintained on an insulin drip.

2.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  (a)  Neck mass:  The patient was
initially admitted to the general medicine floor for
intravenous antibiotics, pain management, and close followup
by Otorhinolaryngology.

Infectious Disease was consulted for further evaluation of
the patient's neck mass, and the consultants recommended the
addition of vancomycin, clindamycin, and to continue Unasyn
which the patient had been started on.  Blood cultures
ultimately returned growing coagulase-positive
Staphylococcus.

The patient's swelling continued to increase, but his
respiratory status remained stable.  His fevers continued as
well.  A chest CT examination was checked to examine for
extension into the mediastinum, and this was negative.
Serial neck CT examinations revealed increase in edema, fat
stranding, and possible abscess formation.

The patient was then seen on consultation by Neurosurgery to
evaluate for extension into the neurologic system.  On
[**2197-8-29**], the patient was taken to the operating room
for drainage of a left posterior neck abscess, and 30 cc to
40 cc of pus was expressed and drained.  Extensive necrosis
surrounding this are was noted.  The patient remained
intubated for airway protection following the procedure, and
he was transferred in good condition to the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit.  He was followed by the Medicine
consultation team for ongoing diabetes management.
Antibiotics were continued and adjusted as required by
sensitivities.

On [**2197-8-31**], routine laboratories revealed that the
patient's hematocrit had been declining, and his white blood
cell count had been increasing.  Clinically, the patient's
neck mass began to increase in size again.  That day the
patient suffered an episode of hypotension to a systolic
blood pressure in the 90s, and he was tachycardic.  He was
given large volume intravenous fluids and transfusions of
packed red blood cells to restore blood volume and blood
pressure.  He responded well to this treatment; however, over
the course of that evening the patient developed atrial
flutter.  The patient was felt to be septic and extubation
was deferred.  Antibiotics were readjusted, and pressors were
used p.r.n. to maintain blood pressure.

On [**2197-9-1**], the patient's fevers continued.  The
wound was explored at bedside.  There was no new drainage,
but there were increased adhesions.  White blood cell count
continued to rise.  The patient was seen in consultation by
the Cardiology Service to evaluate for his atrial flutter and
to receive a transesophageal echocardiogram to rule out
endocarditis.  Transesophageal echocardiogram was negative
for endocarditis.  Cardiology recommended cardioversion and
flecainide for stabilization of the patient's rhythm.

The patient was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit.  His fevers persisted.  White blood cell count
continued to increase.  Hypotension continued to be treated
with large volume intravenous fluids to maintain blood
pressure.

Over the evening of [**2197-9-2**], the patient developed
atrial fibrillation to the 130s.  He was cardioverted to
normal sinus rhythm and extubation was again deferred.  The
patient's urine also was noted to become rust colored, and
his liver function tests began to rise.  A repeat CT scan was
suspicious for persistent pus in the neck.

On [**2197-9-3**], the possibility of meningitis was
entertained, and a lumbar puncture was attempted to rule out
meningitis.  The patient's fevers continued, and the patient
developed an increasing oxygen requirement.  The patient was
again taken to the operating room and an incision an drainage
was performed, and a drainage of prevertebral collection of
fluid was drained as well.

On [**2197-9-4**], the fevers continued.  The patient
continued to require pressors as necessary to maintain blood
pressure.  Lumbar puncture was again attempted, and this was
again unsuccessful.  The patient underwent bronchoscopy to
remove mucous plugs felt to be contributing to the patient's
increasing oxygen requirements.  A repeat CT scan revealed a
possible persistent neck abscess and possible lower lung
collapse, possibly consistent with acute respiratory distress
syndrome.

On [**2197-9-5**], the patient was noted to continue to
require increasing oxygen.  A repeat bronchoscopy was
performed and some mucous plugs were obtained.  The patient
continued to have very high fevers with very elevated
creatine kinase levels.  The diagnosis of malignant
hyperthermia was entertained.  The patient's urine output
declined, and the possibility of acute tubular necrosis
secondary to rhabdomyolysis or sepsis was entertained.

On [**2197-9-6**], the patient was seen on consultation by
Nephrology.  CVVHD was recommended and undertaken.  For the
patient's persistent very high fevers dantrolene was given
for possible malignant hyperthermia.  This resulted in
hypothermia.  The patient continued to have a worsening
metabolic and respiratory acidosis over the day of
[**9-6**].  THAM and bicarbonate were given