Admission Date:  [**2114-9-18**]     Discharge Date:  [**2114-9-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2056-4-16**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58-year-old
gentleman with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, diastolic heart
dysfunction, and gastroesophageal reflux disease who
presented with a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare.

The patient was in his usual state of health until [**2114-9-10**] when he developed increasing shortness of breath and a
productive cough.  The patient visited to the Emergency
Department and was started on levofloxacin for a right lower
lobe pneumonia and was discharged to home.

The patient was seen in clinic for followup on [**2114-9-18**]
with no improvement of symptoms.  At that time, the patient
reported increased dark green phlegm, daytime somnolence, and
weakness.  The patient denied fevers or chills.  In the
clinic, the patient's oxygen saturation was 74% on 2 liters
nasal cannula, and he was sent to the Emergency Department.

The patient was initially admitted to the medicine floor and
received azithromycin, ceftriaxone, and was begun on
Solu-Medrol 125 intravenously each day, as well as
nebulizers.  After two days on the floor, the patient showed
no improvement in his respiratory status.  An arterial blood
gas showed a pH of 7.24, PCO2 of 112, and a PO2 of 57.  The
patient was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit
for noninvasive ventilation.  The patient was mentating well
throughout this course with occasional somnolence.  The
patient denied any fevers or chills.

At home, the patient uses 3 liters nasal cannula
intermittently.  The patient has been intubated twice before;
including in [**2112-4-14**].  The patient continues to smoke
more than one pack of cigarettes per week.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with multiple
hospitalizations; including in [**Month (only) 404**], [**Month (only) 956**], and [**Month (only) **] of
this year.  Home oxygen of 3 liters.  FEV1 of 0.59 (which is
19% of predicted).
2.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
3.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
4.  Obesity.
5.  Chronic low back pain.
6.  Diverticulitis.
7.  Echocardiogram in [**2114-2-14**] showed an ejection
fraction of 55%, impaired relaxation consistent with
diastolic dysfunction.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Medications at home included)
 1.  Actos 15 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Albuterol 4 puffs inhaled four times per day.
 3.  Atrovent 2 puffs inhaled four times per day as needed.
 4.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Flagyl 500 mg by mouth three times per day.
 6.  Flovent 100 4 puffs inhaled twice per day.
 7.  Glucophage 850 mg by mouth three times per day.
 8.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq by mouth once per day.
 9.  Lasix 20 mg by mouth once per day.
10.  Magnesium oxide 400 mg by mouth once per day.
11.  Protonix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
12.  Serevent 2 puffs inhaled twice per day.
13.  Viagra by mouth as needed.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Social history is positive for tobacco.  The
patient previously smoked up to four packs per day.  He
currently smokes about one pack per week.  He denies alcohol
use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Physical examination
upon transfer to the Medical Intensive Care Unit revealed
vital signs with a temperature of 97.5 degrees Fahrenheit,
his heart rate was 115, his blood pressure was 90/50, and
oxygen saturation was 99% on a nonrebreather face mask.  In
general, an obese and thick-necked gentleman in no apparent
distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed extraocular muscles were intact.  Unable to
appreciate jugular venous distention.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  Normal first
heart sounds and second heart sounds.  No murmurs.  Lungs
revealed poor air movement.  Negative crackles.  Negative
wheezes.  The abdomen was obese, soft, and nontender to
palpation.  Normal active bowel sounds.  Extremity
examination revealed venous stasis changes.  No edema.
Neurologic examination revealed the patient was alert and
oriented times three.  He was moving all extremities equally.
No focal deficits.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
upon transfer revealed his white blood cell count was 9.2,
his hematocrit was 34.3, and his platelets were 193, and his
mean cell volume was 96.  Sodium was 147, potassium was 4.9,
chloride was 95, bicarbonate was 53, blood urea nitrogen was
29, creatinine was 0.7, and blood glucose was 109.  Calcium
was 9.5, phosphate was 4.1, and his magnesium was 1.7.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed
progressive pulmonary edema as compared to previous chest
x-ray prior to noninvasive ventilation.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient is a 58-year-old gentleman with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, diastolic dysfunction, type 2 diabetes
mellitus, and gastroesophageal reflux disease with and active
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare.

 1.  RESPIRATORY DISTRESS ISSUES:  (a)  Chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease and congestive heart failure:  Chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation was likely
secondary to pneumonia on chest x-ray two weeks prior to
admission.  No evidence of pneumonia on current chest x-ray.

The patient was continued on ceftriaxone throughout his
hospital stay for his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
exacerbation.  The patient's sputum cultures grew out
oropharyngeal flora.

Upon transfer to the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the patient
was placed on continuous positive airway pressure with good
effect.  The patient refused intubation even if it is
necessary.  The patient's oxygen saturation remained in the
low 90s on a nonrebreather and slowly improved on
methylprednisolone 125 mg intravenously q.6h. while in the
Intensive Care Unit.  The patient was slowly tapered on his
intravenous steroids, and upon discharge was instructed to
continue taking prednisone 40 mg by mouth every day ongoing
until his appointment with his pulmonologist (Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 122**]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]).

At the time of discharge, the patient's respiratory status
had improved markedly, and he was saturating in the low 90s
on nasal cannula.  Due to bed situation, the patient was
discharged directly from the Medical Intensive Care Unit to
home with home oxygen.

(b)  Congestive heart failure:  Due to his diastolic
dysfunction, the patient's congestive heart failure was
treated with intravenous Lasix during his stay in the
hospital.  The patient was discharged with home dose of Lasix
20 mg by mouth once per day

The patient was also maintained on his nebulizers throughout
his hospital stay which were switched over to meter-dosed
inhalers with good effect.  After three to four days on
noninvasive nonrebreather, the patient refused further use of
the nonrebreather or intubation.  The patient was competent
and fully realized the consequences of being off the
nonrebreather.  Therefore, the patient was just maintained on
oxygen via nasal cannula or face mask with good effect.

 2.  TYPE 2 DIABETES MELLITUS ISSUES:  The patient was
maintained on a regular insulin sliding-scale with q.4h.
fingerstick glucoses.  The patient's blood sugars were high
throughout his hospital stay; likely related to the high-dose
steroids that he was receiving.  The patient's oral
hypoglycemics were initially held due to his acidosis and
pulmonary edema.  However, as these improved he was restarted
on his home regimen of Actos and Glucophage.

 3.  ACID-BASE ISSUES:  The patient's acid-base status
improved to baseline with his bicarbonate trending down from
53 on transfer to the high 30s by discharge.  The patient's
respectively acidosis improved as his chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease was brought under control.

 4.  GASTROESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient was
maintained on his home dose of pantoprazole.

 5.  DIVERTICULITIS ISSUES:  Diverticulitis was dormant by
examination.  The patient was not continued on his outpatient
Flagyl and was reco