Admission Date:  [**2175-2-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2175-3-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2128-11-22**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Intensive Care Unit

NOTE:  An Addendum will be dictated at a later time.

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Pancreatitis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 46-year-old white male
with a history of hypertension, and hepatitis C, and distant
intravenous drug use who was in his usual state of good
health until he developed upper abdominal pain on [**2-17**].

He had an acute episode of this upper abdominal pain which
lasted for several hours and then passed.  The abdominal pain
returned on [**2-19**] with nausea, vomiting, and loose
stools.  The patient did experience chills, but he did not
take his temperature.

The patient presented to the Emergency Department at [**Hospital6 23694**] in [**Location (un) 5503**] on [**2-20**] where a right
upper quadrant ultrasound revealed a dilated common bile duct
and 10.5-mm thickened gallbladder.  A computed tomography
scan at this institution revealed a nonenhancing head of the
pancreas consistent with necrosis, free fluid around the
pancreas and gallbladder consistent with necrotizing
pancreatitis.

Notable laboratories from the outside hospital included an
amylase of 801, lipase was 276, AST was 198, and ALT was 310.
Hematocrit was 53, glucose was 162, and white blood cell
count was 14.7.  Creatinine was 1.4.

The patient was admitted and treated with intravenous fluids,
calcium repletion, and imipenem for his necrotizing
pancreatitis.

Gastrointestinal and General Surgery were consulted, and an
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was
deferred at that institution because the patient's liver
function tests were declining.  The hospital course was
complicated by low urine output, an increasing creatinine,
declining calcium, and moderate-to-severe pain.  The patient
was given mannitol and dopamine for his low urine output and
then transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
further evaluation and management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Hepatitis C.
3.  History of intravenous drug and alcohol abuse (very
distant); the patient denies any use in the past 10 years.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:
1.  Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Imipenem 250 mg p.o. q.6h.
3.  Morphine sulfate patient-controlled analgesia.
4.  Ativan as needed.
5.  Dopamine as needed

ALLERGIES:  The patient has an allergy to PENICILLIN.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married with four children.
He quit tobacco four years ago.  He has a distant history of
intravenous drug use and alcohol use, but he has not used
these in 10 years.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history is notable for hypertension
and cerebrovascular disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Admission physical
examination revealed temperature current of 100.9, heart rate
was 104, blood pressure was 118/64, respiratory rate was 24
to 28 times, oxygen saturation was 95% on 4 liters nasal
cannula.  Generally, an obese white male in moderate
distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.   Extraocular muscles were intact.  Mucous
membranes were dry and without lesions.  Carotid pulses were
2+ bilaterally.  The neck was supple.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed tachycardic.  Normal first heart sound
and second heart sound.  No murmurs, gallops, or rubs.  Lungs
revealed a few inspiratory wheezes and decreased lung volumes
bilaterally.  The abdomen was distended and tympanitic.
Decreased bowel sounds.  Moderate epigastric tenderness and
increased in the right upper quadrant.  Extremities revealed
no cyanosis, clubbing, or edema.  Distal pulses were 2+ in
the upper extremities and lower extremities bilaterally.
Neurologic examination revealed alert and oriented times
four.  Cranial nerves II through XII were tested and were
grossly intact; nonfocal.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory data
revealed white blood cell count was 11.9, hematocrit was
38.2, and platelets were 228.  Sodium was 138, potassium was
5.1, chloride was 107, bicarbonate was 16, blood urea
nitrogen was 95, creatinine was 2.6, and blood glucose was
88.  INR was 1.3, prothrombin time was 13.9, and partial
thromboplastin time was 27.2.  AST was 69, ALT was 56, total
bilirubin was 0.8, alkaline phosphatase was 81, albumin was
3.  Creatine kinase was 2103; although, MB and troponin I
fractions were unremarkable.  Amylase was 239 and lipase was
144.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed a double lumen
peripherally inserted central catheter in place and tube in
good position.  Low lung volumes.  No acute process.

An electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 99,
normal axis and normal intervals, a Q wave in lead III, early
R wave progression.  No acute ST-T wave changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   (Summary of the hospital
course up to this time revealed)

1.  PULMONARY SYSTEM:  Several hours after admission, the
patient's respiratory status decompensated because he was
tachypneic and began to desaturate.  The patient was
intubated.

The patient was alternatively managed throughout his stay on
assist-controlled and pressure-controlled ventilation.
Initially, during his hospitalization ventilation began
difficult given his very high peak and plateau pressures.
However, given the patient's large body habitus and marked
abdominal distention, an esophageal balloon was performed to
determine a potential contribution of his high ventilator
pressures to his chest wall and abdomen versus his lungs.
His transpulmonary pressure was calculated to be
approximately 10 cm, and his intragastric pressures were
found to be 30.  This was felt to be most consistent with
marked compression of his thoracic cavity by his abdominal
distention and body habitus.  The patient was felt to have
significant room to move on his ventilatory status.  At the
time of this dictation, the patient is currently being
gradually weaned off AC ventilator settings.

Also with regard to pulmonary issues, the patient developed a
large left pleural effusion early in his stay.  This was felt
most likely to be secondary to his acute pancreatitis.
However, given his very high fevers, several attempts were
made by the Interventional Pulmonology Service and
Interventional Radiology Service to tap this effusion by
ultrasound-guidance.  However, because of the patient's body
habitus, high positive pressure ventilation, and diffuse skin
rash on his back this was not feasible and felt to be too
high or a risk.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  Throughout his stay in the
Intensive Care Unit, the patient remained hemodynamically
stable.  Because of his markedly high fevers.  His heart rate
and his blood pressure were actually elevated.

Given his massive fluid resuscitation, an echocardiogram was
performed.  He was found to have to have hyperdynamic
ventricle with an ejection fraction of greater than 70%.  At
the time of this dictation, the patient has remained
hemodynamically stable.

A Swan-Ganz catheter was placed on [**2-28**] and revealed
low systemic vascular resistance and high cardiac output;
most likely consistent with septic shock.  The patient's
wedge pressures were markedly elevated to the 30s and 40s.
Given the fact that there was no problems oxygenating, and
the patient had normal left ventricular function, this was
felt likely to be falsely elevated secondary to his abdominal
compartment syndrome compressing his thoracic cavity.

3.  GASTROINTESTINAL/BILIARY ISSUES:  Following transfer with
aggressive intravenous fluids resuscitation, the patient's
pancreatic enzymes and liver function tests normalized.

An ultrasound performed on the day following admission (on
[**2-24**]) revealed a continually dilated common bile duct
of 8 mm to 9 mm, but no evidence of stones or cholecystitis.
The patient was evaluated by the Endoscopic Retrograde
Cholangiopancreatography Service and felt not to require
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography because the
patient's pancreatitis was clinically improving.

The patient was felt to need a cholecystectomy and endoscopic
retrograde cholangiopancreatograph