Admission Date:  [**2171-4-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2171-4-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2122-4-9**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 48 year-old
female who presented for gastric bypass for morbid obesity.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Asthma, sleep apnea on CPAP,
gastroesophageal reflux disease, hiatal hernia and
[**Doctor Last Name **]-[**Last Name (un) 95393**] disease, polycystic ovaries.

MEDICATIONS:  Prilosec, Zoloft, Xanax, Albuterol, Tylenol.

ALLERGIES:  Cephalexin, Ceftin, phenobarbital, nickel and
iodine.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  She was afebrile.  Vital signs were
stable.  She had full range of motion.  Her lungs were clear
to auscultation bilaterally.  Her was regular rate and
rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen was soft,
obese, nontender, nondistended.  Bowel sounds were present.
Extremities no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is taken to the Operating Room
on [**2171-4-12**] and underwent a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass with
cholecystectomy and G tube placement was performed.  The
patient was transferred to the PACU postoperatively and then
to the floor.  The patient recovered well on postoperative
day number two.  She began ambulating.  Her fluids were
changed from LR to half normal saline.  The nasogastric tube
was discontinued.  The patient on postoperative day number
one experienced an episode of chest tightness with nausea and
diaphoresis.  An electrocardiogram was done with no specific
changes, however, flat Ts in V5 and V6 and lead 3 were noted.
Chest x-ray was ordered.  An arterial blood gas was ordered.
Lopresor was given.  The patient was given sublingual nitro
and a chest x-ray was also performed to rule out pulmonary
edema.  An arterial blood gas was obtained to rule out PE and
a CT angiogram was also suggested.  Chest x-ray showed mild
increased vascularization.  No obvious evidence of pulmonary
edema.  The arterial blood gas came back 7.36, 53, 151, with
a base excess of 3.  The patient was transferred to the
Intensive Care Unit for chest pain.  Postoperative day number
one CT angio was performed.  The patient was continued on a
PCA.  On postoperatively number three the VQ scan showed no
evidence of PE and CT angio was negative.  Swallow showed no
leak.

The patient was transferred out of the Intensive Care Unit on
the 19th.  The patient continued to recover well.  The
nasogastric tube was clamped.  The antibiotics were
discontinued due to a drop in the white count.  PCA was
stopped. Ambulation was continued.  Heplock of fluids.  The
patient began stage one diet.  The patient was advanced from
stage two to stage three on the 21st.  PCA was stopped and
oral pain medications were begun.  Foley was pulled.  G tube
was clamped.  The patient was discharged to home in stable
condition.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Roxicet elixir, Zantac and vitamin
B-12.  The patient was told to follow up in the gastric
bypass clinic in three weeks and told to call for any further
problems.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3799**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3800**]

Dictated By:[**First Name (STitle) **]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2171-6-3**]  17:25
T:  [**2171-6-5**]  09:02
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
