Admission Date:  [**2158-12-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2158-12-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2093-1-25**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65-year-old
male with no prior history of coronary artery disease who
presented to the Emergency Room on the day of admission after
12-14 hours of chest pressure.  He reports being a relatively
active male and never previously having any pain, pressure,
shortness of breath or anginal type symptoms with exertion.
The night prior to admission while watching T.V. at rest he
had a sudden onset of substernal chest pressure that radiated
to his shoulder.  Despite the pain, the patient ignored it
and was able to go to bed.  The next morning while at church
he saw his primary care physician who advised him to go to
the Emergency Room immediately based on his symptoms.  In the
Emergency Room he was found to be in chest pain and have Q's
on his EKG diagnosed with post infarct angina taken directly
to the cath lab.  Cath lab revealed two vessel coronary
artery disease with a left main having two lesions that were
stented, a 99% tubular lesion and a distal 90% tubular lesion
and the left circumflex having a single 70% lesion in the
distal AV groove.  The right coronary artery had only mild
luminal irregularities.  Additionally, it was noted that the
patient had a wedge pressure of 37 mm and his cardiac index
was 2.6.  The patient was transferred to the CCU for
postoperative care because of his requiring three stents and
presenting so long after his event.  Cardiac risk factors for
this patient included hypertension, hypercholesterolemia,
diabetes, his age, gender, no history of tobacco and no
family history.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hypertension,
diabetes, gout, prostate cancer, status post prostatectomy,
anemia and hypogonadism.

MEDICATIONS:  On admission, Glucovance.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Former tobacco and alcohol but none
currently.  The patient is a former minister in [**Location (un) 686**].

FAMILY HISTORY:  Negative for CAD.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission included blood pressure
132/64, pulse 108 and regular, no JVD, lungs were clear to
auscultation.  Cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm
without murmurs.  Abdomen was benign.  Extremities revealed
sheaths in the right groin, good distal pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission included a hematocrit of 32.4,
BUN 11, creatinine 0.8, first CPK 286.  EKG had normal sinus
rhythm at 111, normal axis, intraventricular conduction
delays and deep Q's V1 through V3, left atrial enlargement
and left ventricular hypertrophy.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Myocardial infarction:  The patient was admitted to the
CCU and put on standard post MI and post cath medications
including Aspirin, beta blocker and ACE inhibitor.  He was
continued on Integrilin for 18 hours postoperatively as a
standard of care and he was diuresed with IV Lasix until his
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was approximately 18.
Hospital day #2 the patient was transferred to the floor and
an echocardiogram was performed which revealed an ejection
fraction of 30% with a dilated left ventricle, 1+ aortic
insufficiency, 1+ mitral regurg.  Additionally there was
anterior septal hypokinesis, anterior free wall hypokinesis
and lateral wall hypokinesis.  Although the patient had
significant hypokinesis, it was decided that he would not
need long-term anticoagulation with Coumadin and his Heparin
was discontinued following the echocardiogram.  On hospital
day #2 the patient was noted to have crackles ?????? way up
bilaterally in his lungs, although his oxygen saturation had
never decreased.  He was diuresed successfully and on the day
of discharge he had no JVD, no edema and no crackles in his
lungs.  The patient was changed from Lopressor and Captopril
to q day Atenolol and Lisinopril at discharge.

2. Gout: The patient had a history of gout and on the day of
discharge he noted left ankle pain consistent with his prior
gout history.  Because of this, we will send him home on 10
mg q day for 5 days of Indocin.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

FOLLOW-UP:  With primary care physician who had been
following along with him in the hospital.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Acute myocardial infarction, status post PTCA and stent.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Plavix 75 mg q day for 28 days,
Lipitor 10 mg q d, Aspirin 325 mg q d, Lasix 20 mg q d,
Atenolol 25 mg q d, Lisinopril 10 mg q d, Indocin 50 mg tid
times five days, and Glucovance.




                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 2057**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1213**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2158-12-21**]  11:29
T:  [**2158-12-23**]  14:42
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
