Admission Date:  [**2106-7-29**]     Discharge Date:


Service:  [**Hospital1 212**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an eighty-three-year-old
woman with a history of hypertension, supraventricular
tachycardia and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who was
admitted from her pulmonologist's office because she appeared
cyanotic and had an oxygen saturation of 72% to 74% on room
air and was dyspneic. The patient had been seen by her
pulmonologist previously on [**2106-7-19**], when she was at
baseline with her room air saturation of 93% on room air. On
the third of [**2106-7-18**], she was seen by her cardiologist who
increased her Sotalol dose to 80 mg three times a day. Since
then, the patient reported increased shortness of breath and
a non-productive cough. The patient denied chest pain, fever
or chills. On the day of [**2106-7-29**], the patient's
temperature was 98.8 F and her peak flow was 75 with a
baseline greater then 175. The patient appeared mildly
lethargic. Arterial blood gas revealed a pH of 7.23, PCO2 of
50 and a PO2 of 37. The patient was placed on three liters of
oxygen with an increase in her oxygen saturation to 93%. The
patient was referred to the medical floor for admission. A
repeat arterial blood gas revealed a pH of 7.23, PCO2 of 76
and PO2 of 40. The patient appeared increasingly lethargic
and was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
further care. The patient had not previously been intubated
and did not have a history of steroid use. The patient's home
oxygen use was limited to night time and napping use only.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1) Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. Pulmonary function tests on [**2106-7-28**], revealed
an FVC which was 51% of predicted FEV1, 38% of predicted and
a FEV1/FVC ratio 74% of predicted. 2) Hypertension. 3)
History of supraventricular tachycardia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1) Fosamax. 2) Serevent 2 puffs
twice a day. 3) Atrovent 4 puffs four times a day. 4)
Beclovent 4 puffs four times a day. 5) Albuterol 2 puffs as
needed. 6) Sotalol 80 mg three times a day. 7) Coumadin. 8)
Vitamin B12.

ALLERGIES: None.

SOCIAL HISTORY: Positive tobacco history, one pack per day
times sixty-seven years, still smoking up to one-half pack
per day prior to admission. Also, positive alcohol history
with one drink per day. The patient lives with her husband in
an independent living facility.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: In general, this is a pleasant elderly
woman who appears comfortable. The patient's vital signs
revealed a temperature of 98.7 F, pulse 77, blood pressure
103/60, respirations 24, oxygen saturation 93% on three
liters oxygen by nasal cannula. The patient's head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat examination revealed pupils which were
equal, round and reactive to light and mucous membranes were
moist. The patient's neck was supple with no jugular venous
distension. The patient's heart had a regular rate and rhythm
with distant heart sounds. The patient's lungs were wheezy,
diffusely bilaterally on expiration. The patient had rhonchi
and dullness at the right base. The patient's abdomen was
soft, nontender and nondistended with good bowel sounds. The
patient's extremities revealed 1+ pedal edema, no clubbing or
cyanosis. The patient's neurological examination was
appropriate. The patient was alert and oriented and had no
focal deficits.

LABORATORY DATA: Significant laboratory values, white blood
cell count 13.6, hematocrit 46.9, platelet count 279,000.

Sodium 140, potassium 5.5, chloride 99, bicarbonate 26,
blood, urea and nitrogen 13 and creatinine 0.6, glucose 119.

Calcium 8.0, magnesium 2.1, phosphorous 3.6, free calcium
1.18.

Prothrombin time 27.3, international normalized ratio 4.9.

The patient's lactate level was 0.7.

The patient's arterial blood gas had a pH of 7.22, PCO2 of 76
and PO2 of 40.

Chest x-ray, hyperinflated lungs, right lower lobe
infiltrate.

HOSPITAL COURSE: This is an eighty-three-year-old woman with
hypertension, supraventricular tachycardia and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease who was admitted with right
lower lobe infiltrate, consistent with pneumonia and a
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation. The
[**Hospital 228**] hospital course by systems is as follows.

1) Pulmonary: the patient was admitted with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease flare in the setting of a right
lower lobe pneumonia and a recent increase in her Sotalol
dose to 80 mg three times a day. The patient was treated with
Levofloxacin and Flagyl for a total of nineteen days during
her admission. In the Intensive Care Unit, she was initially
treated with Solu-Medrol which was then switched to
Prednisone, as well as nebulized Albuterol and Atrovent. The
patient was transferred to the floor on [**2106-8-2**].
However, the patient's pulmonary status failed to improve.
The Sotalol was discontinued on the premise that her
continued cyanosis was due to continued bronchospasm,
secondary to the beta effect of the Sotalol, and she was
started on Disopyramide for her supraventricular tachycardia.
The patient was also started on Diamox on the floor, which
resulted in a severe acidemia which resulted in respiratory
failure. On [**2106-8-10**], the patient was found to be
obtunded with an arterial blood gas with a pH of 7.01, PCO2
of 152 and a PO2 of 67. A respiratory code was called and she
was intubated and returned to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit. In the Medical Intensive Care Unit for the second time,
she briefly required pressors, however, was able to be
extubated on [**2106-8-13**]. However, she failed extubation
and early on [**2106-8-14**], required re-intubation. During
her Medical Intensive Care Unit course, she was again treated
with Solu-Medrol and later switched to Prednisone. On [**2106-8-19**], she was able to tolerate extubation. The patient's
continued respiratory distress in the Medical Intensive Care
Unit was felt to be secondary to a combination of her chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease flare and congestive heart
failure in the setting of supraventricular tachycardia.
Post-extubation, she continued to require three to five
liters of nasal cannula to achieve an oxygen saturation of
86% to 92%.

2) Cardiovascular: the patient has a history of
supraventricular tachycardia and had recently increased her
Sotalol dose prior to admission. On admission, her heart rate
remained stable on Sotalol, however, the Sotalol was
discontinued after her first transfer to the medical floor,
as it was felt that the Sotalol was contributing to her
respiratory failure. Shortly, the patient was switched to
Disopyramide, however, she reverted to atrial
fibrillation/atrial flutter. Diltiazem was added with good
control. During her second unit stay, she was restarted on
Sotalol, however, she re-entered atrial fibrillation/atrial
flutter and was subsequently changed to Amiodarone and
Diltiazem in various combinations and various routes of
administration. The patient failed to convert back to normal
sinus rhythm and continued to have variable rate control.
After transfer to the floor on [**2106-8-23**], she continued
to be in atrial flutter with a rate which ranged from the
70's to 150's. DC cardioversion was planned for [**2106-8-27**].

3) Heme: the patient was anticoagulated on admission for her
history of atrial fibrillation. On [**2106-8-14**], she was
found to have a sudden hematocrit drop from 34 to 25, with
guaiac positive stools. The patient received five units of
packed red blood cells in the Intensive Care Unit and
subsequently her hematocrit has been stable with guaiac
negative stools.

This summarizes the [**Hospital 228**] hospital course from [**2106-7-29**], to [**2106-8-26**]. The remainder of her admission will
be summarized in an addendum to this discharge summary.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 1569**] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 15074**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 11548**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2106-8-26**]  17:29
T:  [**2106-9-2**]  08:27
JOB#:  [**Job Number 26135**]
