Admission Date:  [**2171-12-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2172-1-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2116-5-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine, [**Location (un) **] Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 55-year-old
gentleman with a history of peripheral vascular disease and
recently diagnosed acquired immunodeficiency syndrome who was
transferred from an outside hospital for further evaluation.

The patient was originally admitted to an outside hospital on
[**2171-12-3**] with complaints of vomiting, weakness, and
weight loss.  He was found on admission to be pancytopenic.
A computed tomography scan revealed a fatty liver.  He
subsequently developed a right upper lobe infiltrate.  He was
ruled out for tuberculosis with sputum cultures times three,
but he remained febrile and was started on ceftriaxone and
azithromycin.

A bronchoscopy done at the outside hospital on [**12-11**]
showed erythema in the left main stem bronchus of unclear
significance.

Also, at the outside hospital, the patient was found to be
human immunodeficiency virus positive with a CD4 count of 2.
He was also hepatitis B positive.  The patient was started on
Bactrim for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia prophylaxis.

A bone marrow biopsy done at the outside hospital showed a
myelodysplastic pattern of cells.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for further evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (The patient also has a past medical
history of)
1.  Cholelithiasis.
2.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post two
femoral-to-popliteal bypass grafts on the right lower
extremity.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  (His medications on transfer from
the outside hospital included)
1.  Azithromycin 500 mg by mouth every day.
2.  Bactrim double strength one tablet by mouth every day.
3.  Protonix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
4.  Simethicone.
5.  Vancomycin 1 gram twice per day.
6.  Diflucan.
7.  Prednisone 20 mg by mouth once per day.
8.  Nystatin swish-and-swallow.

ALLERGIES:

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has smoked one-third of a pack
of cigarettes for the past 35 years.  No current alcohol use,
but heavy alcohol use 20 to 30 years ago.  No drug abuse.
The patient denies any homosexual contact.  [**Name (NI) **] has a history
of unprotected heterosexual contact years ago.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His father died of a myocardial infarction
at the age of 49.  His mother had breast cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's physical
examination on admission revealed his temperature was 99.6
degrees Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 120, his blood
pressure was 120/64, his respiratory rate was 22, and his
oxygen saturation was 91% to 93% on 3 liters.  His head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed temporal
wasting.  He had some erythema around the nose.  He had some
thrush in the oral cavity.  His pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  His extraocular muscles were intact.  The
neck was supple.  The patient had no lymphadenopathy.
Jugular venous distention was not appreciated.  He had no
wheezes on pulmonary examination.  He did have some diffuse
crackles on the right greater than left.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed tachycardia.  Normal first heart sounds
and second heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  The
patient's abdomen was soft and nontender.  The abdomen was
mildly distended.  Extremity examination revealed he had 2+
pitting edema in the right lower extremity and 1+ on the
right side.  The dorsalis pedis pulses were 2+ on the left
and 1+ on the right.  On neurologic examination, the patient
was alert and oriented times three.  His cranial nerves II
through XII were intact.  His motor strength was [**6-17**] in the
upper extremity.  Motor strength was 4+/5 in the lower
extremity.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's
laboratory values revealed his white blood cell count was
1.6, his hematocrit was 24.9, and his platelets were 57.  The
patient's sodium was 135, his potassium was 4.3, his chloride
was 109, his bicarbonate was 21, his blood urea nitrogen was
15, his creatinine was 0.4, and his blood glucose was 106.
His liver function tests revealed a normal
alanine-aminotransferase of 36, his aspartate
aminotransferase was 86, his lactate dehydrogenase was 446,
his alkaline phosphatase was 112, and his total bilirubin was
0.7.  His calcium was 7.5, his magnesium was 1.9, and his
phosphate was 3.9.  The patient's thyroid-stimulating hormone
was 2.5.  He was hepatitis B surface antigen positive.  His
hepatitis B core antibody was positive.  His hepatitis B
surface antibody was negative.  His human immunodeficiency
virus test was positive while here.  He had urine cultures
which did not grow out any bacteria.  His blood cultures did
not grow out bacteria.  His rapid plasma reagin was
nonreactive.  His cryptococcal antigen was undetectable.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The patient's chest x-ray on
admission showed diffuse ground-glass opacities throughout
the right lung and in the left lower lobe.  No definite
pleural effusion.  This was most likely consistent with
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.

He had a computed tomography scan on admission of the chest
which showed diffuse areas of consolidation involving both
lungs as well as sparing of the left upper lobe; again
consistent with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.  He had a
moderate right pleural effusion.  He also had ascites in his
abdomen.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:
Impression revealed a 55-year-old gentleman with newly
diagnosed human immunodeficiency virus and a history of
peripheral vascular disease who now presented hypoxic,
requiring a significant amounts of oxygen, and also with
pancytopenia, and most likely with a Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia infection.

 1.  HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS ISSUES:  Initially, the
patient was started on highly active antiretroviral therapy
treatment for his advanced human immunodeficiency
virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.  His highly active
antiretroviral therapy was started on hospital day two;
including efavirenz 600 mg by mouth at hour of sleep and
lamivudine/zidovudine one tablet by mouth twice per day.  On
hospital day three, the lamivudine/zidovudine was
discontinued, and lamivudine by itself was added on at 150 mg
by mouth twice per day, and stavudine 30 mg by mouth q.12h.
Was added to the regimen.

A discussion ensued regarding whether or not the patient had
a possible immune reconstitution reaction worsening his
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, and it was decided that his
highly active antiretroviral therapy treatment would be
temporarily placed on hold until his opportunistic infections
improved.  Subsequently, his highly active antiretroviral
therapy treatment was discontinued on hospital day twelve and
had not been restarted at the time of this dictation.

 2.  PNEUMOCYSTIS CARINII PNEUMONIA ISSUES:  The patient was
essentially diagnosed with Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia on
admission via a chest x-ray, elevated lactate dehydrogenase,
and computed tomography scan.

A Pulmonary Service consultation was obtained on hospital day
two.  A bronchoscopy which they performed showed a normal
oropharynx and a normal larynx.  In the airway, there was
mild erythema and a discrete erythematous area seen in the
left main stem bronchus of unclear significance.
Subsequently immunofluorescence test for Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia performed from the bronchial lavage was positive
for Pneumocystis carinii.

The patient was started on treatment level dosage of Bactrim
for his Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia which was 250 mg
intravenously q.8h. for 21 days.  He was also started on
prednisone for a 21-day course with a taper in place.

 3.  CYTOMEGALOVIRUS ISSUES:  The patient had a
cytomegalovirus viral load sent on hospital day ten which
came back with 57,000 copies.  The test was repeated on
hospital day eighteen and came back 21,000 copies.  In the
interim, the patient was being treated with ganciclovir at
250 mg intravenously q.12h.  The latest cytomegalovirus viral
load performed on hospital day twenty-four revealed a viral
load of 7000.  The patient is currently still b