Admission Date:  [**2193-10-18**]       Discharge Date:  [**2193-11-1**]


Service:  [**Location (un) 259**]
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86-year-old
female with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, coronary artery disease status post myocardial
infarction, and congestive heart failure with an ejection
fraction of 30 to 35%, who presents with respiratory failure
to the Emergency Department by people at a local grocery
store when they noted the patient's absence for several days.
Per patient report, the patient had undergone a syncopal
episode with loss of consciousness and head trauma three days
prior to admission.  When the patient awoke, she was
reportedly unable to move, and remained down on the ground
for approximately three days, where she was found by her
the event, however, denied fevers, chills, chest pain, and
shortness of breath at the time.  She was hypothermic on
presentation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease requiring
intubation in [**2190-2-1**] and [**2190-3-1**] for
hypercarbic respiratory failure
2.  Coronary artery disease status post inferior myocardial
infarction ([**2190**])
3.  Congestive heart failure - echocardiogram ([**10-2**])
demonstrating ejection fraction of 40%, with mild symmetric
left ventricular hypertrophy and decreased left ventricular
systolic function with 1+ mitral regurgitation and moderate
pulmonary hypertension
4.  Hypertension
5.  Hypercholesterolemia
6.  Osteoarthritis

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Aspirin
2.  Lisinopril 10 mg by mouth once daily
3.  Sublingual nitroglycerin as needed
4.  Lasix 80 mg by mouth once daily
5.  Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once daily
6.  Vioxx
7.  Flovent
8.  Combivent
9.  Potassium chloride

ALLERGIES:  Question of penicillin allergy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is widowed, without children.
She lives by herself.  The patient emigrated from [**Country 5976**] in the
[**2161**].  The patient reports a one pack per day tobacco
history of 30 year duration, remote alcohol, and denies
previous intravenous drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On Medical Intensive Care Unit
admission, temperature 97.3, heart rate 85, blood pressure
138/51, respiratory rate 14, oxygen saturation 90% on FIMV
with an FIO2 of 50%.  In general, the patient is intubated
and sedated, in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose
and throat:  Pupils 1 mm, round bilaterally, and sluggish, no
scleral icterus, dry mucous membranes, ecchymoses at the
right temple.  Neck examination:  Supple, no jugular venous
distention, no lymphadenopathy.  Pulmonary examination:
Notable for right-sided rhonchi with slightly decreased
breath sounds on the left, with good aeration on the right,
no wheezes or rales appreciated anteriorly.  Cardiovascular
examination:  Regular rate and rhythm, with normal S1, S2, no
murmurs, gallops or rubs.  Abdominal examination:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended, with normal active bowel sounds and
an old healed ventral scar.  Extremities:  No cyanosis,
clubbing or edema, evidence of poor hygiene, 2+ distal
pulses.  Skin examination:  Dry throughout, with no rashes
noted, occasional ecchymoses.  Neurologic examination:
Sedated, with withdrawal to pain.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, CBC with a white blood cell
count of 11.8, hematocrit 42.2, platelets 463, with an MCV of
80.  White blood cell differential:  86% polys, 0 bands, 8%
lymphs, and 6% monos.  Chem 7:  Sodium 146, potassium 5.7,
chloride 101, bicarbonate 27, BUN 119, creatinine 4.9,
glucose 43.  First set of cardiac enzymes with a troponin of
0.6, CK of 764, MB of 64, and MB index of 8.4.  Second set of
cardiac enzymes with a troponin of 0.4, CK of 564, MB of 45,
and MB index of 8.0.  Third set of cardiac enzymes with CK of
434, CK/MB of 33, troponin of 0.6, and MB index not done.
Liver function tests with an ALT of 55, AST 67, alkaline
phosphatase 107, amylase 93, total bilirubin 0.5, lipase 134,
albumin 2.7, calcium 7.9, with a free calcium of 1.17,
phosphate 8.4, magnesium 2.9, serum osmolality of 343.
Lactate level on an arterial blood gas of 0.9.  Chest x-ray
on admission with evidence of cardiomegaly and mild
congestive heart failure, as well as right middle lobe and
right lower lobe opacities.  Head CT with no evidence of
bleed or edema.  Cervical spine with no evidence of fracture,
subluxation, or definite lytic or sclerotic lesions.  Marked
demineralization present.  Pelvic films with no evidence of
fracture or dislocation.  Electrocardiogram on admission with
left bundle branch block and diffusely decreased voltages.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In the Emergency Department, the patient
was initially found hypotensive with a blood pressure of
86/palp, with a pulse of 102, and hypoglycemic with a blood
glucose of 43.  The patient was started on intravenous fluids
and given D-50.  Initial laboratory work was notable for an
elevated BUN and creatinine, hyperkalemia, and elevated
cardiac enzymes.  The patient underwent trauma series with
head CT, cervical spine and pelvis films, without evidence of
fracture.  The patient's initial chest x-ray demonstrated
cardiomegaly with mild congestive heart failure and right
middle lobe and right lower lobe opacities.

During the patient's time in the Emergency Room, the patient
was noted to become increasingly somnolent, with decreased
oxygen saturations.  Initially 96% on room air, the patient
desaturated into the 80s, requiring supplemental oxygen.  An
initial arterial blood gas at this time revealed a pH of
7.17, PCO2 of 80, and PO2 of 86.  The patient was placed on
CPAP for one hour, and a subsequent arterial blood gas
revealed a pH of 7.17, PCO2 of 81, and a PO2 of 66.  The
patient was administered nebulizers without effect, and
subsequently intubated.  The patient also required dopamine
for blood pressure support and was subsequently transferred
to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.

The remainder of the hospital course by systems:
1.  Pulmonary:  The patient has a known history of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease with a history of multiple
intubations.  While in the Emergency Department, the patient
required intubation secondary to hypercarbic respiratory
failure.  The chest x-ray obtained in the Emergency
Department demonstrated right middle lobe and right lower
lobe opacities, and the patient was started on empiric
antibiotics for presumed aspiration pneumonia.  The patient
was also started on Solu-Medrol for a presumed chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease flare.

While in the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the patient was
maintained on low-volume ventilation with frequent nebulizer
treatments.  While in the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the
patient was aggressively hydrated secondary to presumed
sepsis with subsequent development of volume overload and
congestive heart failure.  During the Medical Intensive Care
Unit stay, the patient was noted to have increased sputum
production with a sputum culture positive for Acinetobacter.
After a failed weaning trial, the patient was successfully
extubated on hospital day number seven.

After extubation, the patient maintained adequate oxygen
saturation on 4 liters nasal cannula, and was transferred to
the floor.  While on the floor, the patient continued with an
oxygen requirement, requiring both frequent nebulizer
treatments and diuresis for volume overload.  Subsequent
chest x-rays showed fluctuation in the patient's congestive
heart failure, however, demonstrated interval improvement in
the patient's infiltrates.  The patient continued on
Solu-Medrol, and was eventually changed to a prednisone taper
for a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare.  The
patient's supplemental oxygen was successfully weaned to 2
liters nasal cannula several days prior to discharge,
however, the patient continued to desaturate on room air.

2.  Cardiovascular:  The patient became hemodynamically
unstable in the Emergency Department, with hypotension
requiring dopamine support.  Admission laboratories were
notable for elevated cardiac enzymes with a peak CK of 764,
CK/MB index of 8.4, and negative troponin-i.  The patient's
electrocardiogram was unchanged fro