Admission Date:  [**2120-12-4**]       Discharge Date:  [**2120-12-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2067-2-15**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CT SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 53-year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease status post
multiple percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties
with stents.  He was symptom-free for two weeks status post
the last stent.  Since then, he has had progressive angina
and occasional angina at rest.  No history of orthopnea,
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, or lower extremity edema.
Denies atrial fibrillation or transient ischemic attack.  No
claudication.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   Noncontributory.

MEDICATIONS:   Aspirin 325 mg once daily, Lopressor 25 mg
twice a day, Protonix 40 mg once daily, Lipitor 20 mg once
daily, Norvasc 5 mg once daily.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   Cardiac:  Regular rate and rhythm,
Grade I/VI systolic murmur.  Pulmonary:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Extremities:  No edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was brought to the operating
room on [**2120-12-5**], where a coronary artery bypass graft x 4
was performed.  Left internal mammary artery went to left
anterior descending, saphenous vein graft to diagonal,
saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal I, saphenous vein
graft to obtuse marginal III.  The pericardium was left open.
An arterial line and right internal jugular with a Swan-Ganz
catheter were placed.  Two atrial wires as well as two
mediastinal tubes and one pleural tube were placed.  His EBB
equals 98 minutes, XTL equals 66 minutes.

Postoperatively, the patient was transferred to the Intensive
Care Unit, where he was rapidly extubated.  On postoperative
day one, his mediastinal and pleural tubes were removed.  He
was kept in the Intensive Care Unit for aggressive pulmonary
toilet on postoperative day two.  On postoperative day two,
the patient was noted to have tachycardia and diaphoresis
despite albuterol nebulizers and pain control.  He began to
become hypoxemic.  A chest x-ray revealed a consolidation
with pneumonia, for which levofloxacin and vancomycin were
started.  The patient was reintubated and was once again
stable.  A TTE performed at that time revealed right
ventricular hypokinesis and mild mitral regurgitation.  No
pericardial effusion, and the left ventricular ejection
fraction was preserved.

The patient was stable on the ventilator.  He was on a
Neo-Synephrine and propofol drip.  Tube feeds were started
also on postoperative day two.  The patient's hematocrit fell
to 23 on two occasions, for which he received two units of
packed red blood cells each time.  The ventilator began to be
weaned on postoperative day three, and on postoperative day
four, the patient was extubated again.  The Neo-Synephrine
drip was also weaned.

The patient was stable in the Intensive Care Unit, and was
transferred to the floor on [**2120-12-11**], in the evening.
This is now postoperative day seven.  On the floor, he was
slow with ambulation, but eventually improved significantly.
He was tolerating a regular diet, and levofloxacin and
vancomycin were discontinued.  Laboratories were stable, with
a hematocrit of 32.3, white count 5.8, potassium 4.2, BUN 21,
creatinine .7.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:   Stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:   Lopressor 25 mg twice a day, lasix
20 mg twice a day, potassium chloride 20 mEq twice a day,
Colace 100 mg twice a day, aspirin 325 mg once daily, Plavix
75 mg once daily, Lipitor 20 mg once daily, Protonix 20 mg
once daily, Tylenol and percocet one to two tablets by mouth
every four to six hours as needed.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Home.

FO[**Last Name (STitle) 996**]P:  With primary care physician in three weeks,
follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] in four weeks.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Status post coronary artery bypass graft x 4




                            [**Doctor Last Name 412**] [**Last Name (Prefixes) 413**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 414**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 1308**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2120-12-13**]  14:40
T:  [**2120-12-14**]  03:44
JOB#:  [**Job Number 35463**]
