Admission Date: [**2146-2-14**]        Discharge Date: [**2146-2-19**]

Date of Birth:  [**2068-9-14**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) 7081**]


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77-year-old man with a
history of severe emphysema and coronary artery disease that
was a longtime smoker who developed recent hemoptysis 2 to 3
months ago that was found to have an endobronchial lesion in
the apical segment of the right upper lobe that was confirmed
by a biopsy to be a non-small-cell carcinoma.  He had an
unremarkable metastatic survey, including a PET scan.  He
also received preoperative cardiac clearance and was
catheterized at the end of [**2145-12-10**].  His pulmonary
function was noted to be limited, however; but the patient
was functionally quite well and was able to walk flights of
stairs without significant difficulty.  This pulmonary mass
was giving him obstructive symptoms.  It was felt at this
time this would not involve the removal of too much
functional lung parenchyma.  The plan - after multiple
meetings with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] - was to proceed with
mediastinoscopy, and if the nodes were negative to proceed to
a lobectomy.  He was fully preoperatively cleared, as stated
before, from a cardiology perspective.  He did receive
preoperative chest x-rays that were within normal limits,
except for a right apical haziness that represented the
likely tumor and significant emphysema.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  The patient was noted to
be afebrile with all vital signs within normal limits.  He
was in no apparent distress, and was comfortable, and was a
fairly well-appearing gentleman that appeared also well
nourished but not obese.  He was normocephalic, atraumatic.
Pupils equally round and reactive to light.  His oropharynx
was clear.  His neck was supple without lymphadenopathy or
masses or thyromegaly.  There were no bruits noted.  He had
no supraclavicular or axillary lymphadenopathy.  His lungs
were somewhat coarse in the right apical field, and he did
display an occasional expiratory wheeze.  He was in a regular
rate and rhythm with no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  His
abdomen was nondistended with normal active bowel sounds and
was nontender throughout.  There were no notable scars or
hernias noted.  There was no inguinal lymphadenopathy.  He
had no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On the morning of [**2146-2-14**], the
patient was admitted to the [**Hospital1 188**] under the care of Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and was brought to the
operating room that morning where he underwent bronchoscopy,
cervical mediastinoscopy, and right thoracotomy with right
upper lobectomy.  The operation proceeded without
complication and without any hemodynamic instability.  The
patient was extubated in the operating room and taken to the
thoracic intensive care unit in good condition.

In the immediate postoperative period, the patient's pain was
well controlled with an epidural catheter that was managed by
the acute pain service.  He, again, displayed no hemodynamic
instability.  His cardiac enzymes were followed
postoperatively along with serial EKGs, based on his recent
catheterization.  These were all unremarkable, and his
cardiac enzymes never showed a significant increase on 3
subsequent sets.

On postoperative day #1, the patient was able to be
transferred in the late afternoon to the hospital [**Hospital1 **] and
out of the intensive care unit.  The patient continued to
progress here.  His chest tubes at this time were placed to
water seal at midnight on the night on postoperative day #1.
There was minimal small right pleural effusions noted at this
time on serial chest x-rays, and these chest tubes were
without air leak with the posterior tube removed on
postoperative day #3 and the anterior tube removed on
postoperative day #4 with no significant untoward event.
There was a very, very small residual right apical
pneumothorax following the removal of the second chest tube;
but it was deemed clinically insignificant, and the patient
was functionally very well at this time.

On postoperative day #5, after working with physical therapy
on multiple sessions, it was deemed that he would benefit
from the option of home oxygen.  His saturations on the
morning of discharge were 95% on 2 liters without any
activity.  He was then ambulated up to 100 feet, and his
oxygen saturation on room air at this point - post ambulation
- was noted to be approximately 89-90%.  The patient was
doing well and was very comfortable at this time.  His pain
was well controlled with p.r.n. Percocet.  At this time, he
was deemed fit for discharge.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Right upper lobe mode; status post
bronchoscopy, cervical mediastinoscopy and right upper
lobectomy; coronary artery disease; status post
catheterization in [**2145-12-10**]; chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease; gout; benign prostatic hyperplasia;
abdominal aortic aneurysm; status post bilateral inguinal
hernia repairs in the distant past; tonsillectomy.

MAJOR SURGICAL OR INVASIVE PROCEDURES:  Bronchoscopy,
mediastinoscopy, right thoracotomy for right upper lobectomy,
endotracheal intubation, arterial line placement, peripheral
intravenous line placement, Foley catheter placement.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Atorvastatin 10 mg p.o. daily, Lasix
20 mg p.o. daily, doxazosin 4 mg p.o. daily, allopurinol 300
mg p.o. daily, Advair Diskus, finasteride 5 mg p.o. daily,
Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. at bedtime, colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. daily,
Percocet 5/325 one to 2 tablets p.o. q.4-6h. as needed for
pain, diltiazem 180 mg p.o. b.i.d., Toprol XL 25 mg p.o.
daily, prednisone 5 mg to take 1 dose on [**2-20**] and then
to stop, Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. to take while on Percocet
to prevent constipation.

DISPOSITION:  The patient to be discharged to home with
visiting nurse assistance and home oxygen.

FOLLOWUP:  To follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], and to call the
office to schedule an appointment at ([**Telephone/Fax (1) 1504**].



                        [**Name6 (MD) 4667**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D. [**MD Number(2) 39921**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 15912**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2146-2-19**] 12:59:18
T:  [**2146-2-19**] 13:48:06
Job#:  [**Job Number 39922**]
