Admission Date:  [**2182-7-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2182-7-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2106-4-20**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Hospital1 139**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chief complaint upon admission was a fall.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was a 76-year-old
female with a history of aortic valve replacement and mitral
valve replacement, on chronic Coumadin therapy, who presented
to [**Hospital1 69**] after a fall which
led to a subarachnoid hemorrhage in the right frontal lobe
and small subdural hematoma.

The patient was brought into the hospital after an
unwitnessed fall with a question of head trauma and a
question of loss of consciousness.  She did not complain of
any chest pain, shortness of breath, nausea, or vomiting
either prior to the fall or subsequent to the fall.  She did
complain of left thumb pain on admission.

The patient had a similar episode eight years ago with a fall
while she was on anticoagulation.  The patient was also
diagnosed with multi-infarct dementia possibly secondary to
her valve replacements.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Her physical
examination upon transfer to the Medicine Service showed
vital signs which revealed she was afebrile, pulse was 93,
blood pressure was 167/65.  She was  saturating 94% on 3
liters.  Her general appearance revealed she was a
confused-appearing and well-nourished female in no apparent
distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
showed pupils were equally round and reactive to light and
accommodation.  She had dry mucous membranes.  Her neck
examination showed no masses, no jugular venous distention,
no carotid bruits.  Cardiovascular examination was
irregularly irregular with a prominent first heart sound and
second heart sound secondary to her valve replacements.
There were no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  The patient had good
breath sounds anteriorly.  Her abdomen had positive bowel
sounds.  It was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Her
extremities showed no edema, clubbing or cyanosis, and there
was a splint on her left thumb.  Her neurologic examination
showed cranial nerves II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, IX, X, [**Doctor First Name 81**], and
XII were intact.  Her sensation was grossly intact.  Her
muscle strength was 4 throughout except in the left arm which
was 4-.  Her reflexes revealed she was hyporeflexic in the
lower extremities and hyperreflexic in the upper extremities.
Her toes were downgoing bilaterally.  She had a positive suck
reflex, a negative snout reflex, positive grasp reflex, and
positive perseveration.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's
laboratories on admission showed a white blood cell count
of 12.2, hemoglobin was 14.8, hematocrit was 41, and a
platelet count of 218.  She had a PT of 25, PTT was 38.3, and
an INR of 4.3.  Her Chemistry-7 showed sodium was 139,
potassium was 5, chloride was 101, bicarbonate was 28, blood
urea nitrogen was 18, creatinine was 1.3, blood glucose
was 249.  She ruled out for a myocardial infarction with
three sets of cardiac enzymes, and her digoxin level was
found to be 0.6.  Her creatine kinase was found to be 796;
consistent with her trauma.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Otherwise, a CT of the head showed a
question of a subdural hematoma at the right sylvian fissure
versus a brain contusion.  There was found to be a focus of
high density in the right frontal lobe.  Also, a small
subdural collection adjacent to the right [**Last Name (un) 44708**].  There was
moderate brain atrophy, and a remote lacunar infarct in the
left caudate and anterior limb of the internal capsule.

A CT of the cervical spine showed no fractures.

An x-ray of the lumbar spine showed no fractures.

An x-ray of the thoracic spine showed no fractures.

An x-ray of the hand showed a transverse fracture of the left
distal first phalanx.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was
significant for an admission to Neurosurgery where she
remained for one day and had her anticoagulation reversed
with fresh frozen plasma and vitamin K.

She was subsequently transferred to the Medicine Service
after serial CT examinations of the head which were negative
for an increase in the size of the bleed.

Upon transfer to Medicine, her anticoagulation was restarted
due to concerns over the formation of clots along her mitral
or aortic valve replacements.  Cardiology was consulted and
recommended that the patient's PTT be maintained around 40 to
60.  The Neurology Stroke Service agreed with this assessment
and decided the patient should be anticoagulated for at one
week with serial CT examinations to look for increasing size
of the subarachnoid hemorrhage with a central hematoma and
could subsequently be switched to Coumadin after one week
with a stable CT scan of the head.

The patient tolerated this regimen for two days.
Subsequently, she was found by cross-cover to have





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1211**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1212**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 15575**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2182-7-26**]  20:07
T:  [**2182-8-3**]  03:13
JOB#:  [**Job Number 95698**]
