Admission Date:  [**2155-9-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2155-9-24**]


Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypoxemia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 82 year-old male with
an extensive past medical history including severe coronary
artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, and congestive
heart failure with a known EF of 20% who was in his usual
state of health until the afternoon on admission around 5:00
p.m. after pulling on his grill on his barbecue he had
significant exertion.  The patient developed acute pallor,
vague chest pain radiating across his shoulders.  Symptoms
persisted and his wife called 911.  In the ambulance the
patient became acutely short of breath and the was noted to
be hypertensive to 170/100.  On arrival the patient's blood
pressure was 187/87 with a heart rate of 94, oxygen sat 96%
to 100% nonrebreather.  The patient was noted to have rales
to the apices and chest x-ray consistent with severe
pulmonary edema.  The patient was subsequently sedated and
intubated with subsequent decrease in his blood pressure
requiring intravenous Dopamine.  His blood pressure slowly
improved on Dopamine and it was weaned and intravenous nitro
and Lasix was administered.  Of note the patient complained
of severe abdominal pain.  A KUB was unremarkable.  CT scan
was not done during this examination given the improvement of
his abdominal pain over the course of his admission.  The
patient was transferred to Coronary Care Unit for further
management and workup of his congestive heart failure and
abdominal pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease with three vessel disease [**2150-3-8**].  Catheterization with 30% left main and 30% proximal
left anterior descending coronary artery lesion and 30% D1.
2.  Peripheral vascular disease status post right iliofemoral
bypass on [**2152-10-9**].  Status post angioplasty of the
left iliac in [**2154-7-8**].
3.  Ischemic cardiomyopathy/congestive heart failure with
known EF of 20%.  Echocardiogram [**2155-6-8**] global left
ventricular hypokinesis and 1+ mitral regurgitation.
4.  Ventricular tachycardia arrest status post ablation and
placement of an ICD.
5.  Sick sinus syndrome status post permanent pacemaker
placement.
6.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
7.  Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of
2.1 to 3.6.
8.  Hypertension.
9.  Hypercholesterolemia.
10.  Gallstone pancreatitis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Aspirin 325 po q day.
2.  Amiodarone 200 mg po q day.
3.  Plavix 75 mg po q day.
4.  Isordil 30 mg po q day.
5.  Hydralazine 25 mg po t.i.d.
6.  Lasix 40 mg po q day.

ALLERGIES:  Ace inhibitor, low blood pressure, question
creatinine rise.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with wife in [**Name (NI) 11209**].
Occasional alcohol.  No intravenous drug use.  Quit smoking
about ten years ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs temperature 98.3.  Blood
pressure 141/51.  Heart rate 61 paced.  100% oxygen
saturation.  He was on pressure support of 10, PEEP of 5,
breathing 600.  Respirations 600, tidal volume by 12
respirations.  General, examination the patient was an
elderly obese male, intubated, sedated, but following simple
commands appropriately in no acute distress.  HEENT
normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils are equal, round and
reactive to light.  Anicteric.  Oropharynx is clear and
moist.  Neck supple.  JVP approximately 11 cm to bilateral
carotid bruits, 1+ upstrokes bilaterally.  Cardiovascular
distant heart sounds, regular no heaves or thrills.  Lungs
few crackles bilaterally at the lateral bases.  No wheezes or
rhonchi.  Abdomen soft, mildly distended, normal bowel
sounds.  Diffuse tenderness to palpation in all four
quadrants.  No rebound.  No pulsatile masses.  No
hepatosplenomegaly.  Well healed infraumbilical scar.  Guaiac
negative stools on rectal examination.  No masses.
Extremities no clubbing or cyanosis, 2+ pitting edema in the
lower extremities to the knees.  1+ left femoral pulses,
right pulse is not palpable.  Neurological following
commands, extraocular movements intact.  No facial asymmetry.
 Moving all extremities symmetrically.

LABORATORY:  The patient had a white blood cell count of
20.6, hematocrit 41.4, platelets 859.  Differential on the
white count 60% polys, 32% lymphocytes, 5% monocytes.  INR
1.1, fibrinogen 344.  Chemistries creatinine 2.4, BUN 37,
glucose 236, potassium 4.3, sodium 138, CK 92, troponin 0.02,
lactate 2.1.  Liver function tests were within normal limits.
Urine cultures was sent and is pending.  Chest x-ray on
admission cardiomegaly with left ventricular enlargement,
severe interstitial and alveolar pulmonary edema, bilateral
pleural effusions, positive gastric distention.  KUB
nasogastric tube tip in stomach.  No dilated loops of free
bowels, free air cannot be excluded.  Electrocardiogram
ventricularly paced at 96 beats per minute.  The patient
alternates between AV pacing and ________ and V paced.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiac:  Pump, the patient presented
with severely depressed ejection fraction at 20% and floored
congestive heart failure clinically and radiographically.
The etiology of his congestive heart failure exacerbation was
unclear likely due to the elevation in his blood pressure
probably induced afterload secondary to his abdominal pain,
which subsequently resolved during this admission.  The
patient was maintained on nitro drip and Lasix prn initially
to a goal of 2 liters and minimize the fluid intake.  The
patient was started on low dose beta blocker, which was
titrated up during this admission to a discharge medication
of Toprol XL 25 mg po q day and the patient was eventually
weaned off the nitro drip and restarted back on his oral
nitrates and intravenous Hydralazine during this admission.
The patient was started initially on ace inhibitor, but was
not tolerating it with a rise in his creatinine and the
patient was returned back to intravenous Hydralazine and will
be discharged on his oral doses of nitrates and Hydralazine
during this admission.  The etiology of his congestive heart
failure was unclear.  The patient had a cardiac
catheterization that showed elevated filling pressures with a
right atrial pressure of 14, RV 59/13, PA 53/33, wedge of 20
and LV 140/15 on his hemodynamics.  This was consistent with
the patient being in floored congestive heart failure.

Examination of his coronary artery during cardiac
catheterization showed a normal left main, left anterior
descending coronary artery with mild disease without critical
lesions.  The D1 had an osteal 70% lesion, but was a small
vessel.  The left circumflex was a nondominant vessel that
was occluded proximally, but had good distal flow from the
collaterals distally and right coronary artery was a dominant
vessel that was occluded proximally, but also had good distal
collaterals from the left anterior descending coronary
artery.  There was no intervention done with these lesions
and it was thought that ischemia was ruled out as a cause for
his congestive heart failure and the patient was returned to
Coronary Care Unit for further diuresis and management of his
hemodynamics.  On hospital day seven the patient was found to
have an elevation of his creatinine to a 2.8 and rising BUN
of 139 and an elevation of his sodium to 141.  It was felt
that the patient had become overdiuresed aggressively.  At
this point the diuretics were held and the patient was
maintained on intravenous hydration to improve his
intravascular volume.  On the day of discharge the patient
had a stable creatinine done down to 2.3, which had been
trending down and the patient was again not given an ace
inhibitor during his stay.  The patient's Lasix had been held
off in light of the fact that the patient was overdiuresed
and will probably require the addition of his Lasix 40 po q
day his home dose, again two to three days after discharge
from the Coronary Care Unit here.  The patient will be
discharged on his oral nitrates and Hydralazine and Toprol XL
and will add Lasix at a later time.

Ischemia, the patient was initially ruled out with flat
enzymes and cardiac catheterization showed no culprit lesions
and there was no intervention to be done.  The patient