Admission Date: [**2173-5-5**]        Discharge Date: [**2173-5-18**]

Date of Birth:  [**2096-3-1**]        Sex:  F

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was transferred from
[**Hospital3 **] for an upper GI bleed. The patient was
originally admitted on [**4-23**] with cellulitis of her left
hand. She underwent an irrigation and debridement of her hand
for treatment of this abscess versus cellulitis. However, a
few days ago the patient began complaining of some abdominal
pain and the right upper quadrant ultrasound subsequently
demonstrated the presence of stones, but no evidence of acute
cholecystitis. The patient was also noted to have some black,
loose, tarry appearing stools. Her hematocrit on the day of
transfer was noted to drop from 31 to 25. Endoscopy that was
performed showed a duodenal ulcer with a fresh blood clot.
The patient was subsequently transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for further evaluation and
treatment. In addition, is that the patient had elevated
creatinines upon discharge and is at the time of discharge
noted to be anuric.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient's past medical history is
significant for coronary artery disease, including a cardiac
catheterization in [**2171-9-23**] that showed moderate
diastolic ventricular dysfunction and 1 vessel coronary
artery disease and an ejection fraction of 63%. The patient
also has a history of congestive heart failure, hypertension,
pericarditis and is status post a pericardial window and
endometrial cancer.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Past surgical history is significant
for coronary artery bypass graft in [**2164-6-23**]. She had
dilatation and curettage. A pericardial window in [**2164**] and a
hysterectomy in [**2171**].

MEDICATIONS:  Her meds at home were Lasix 40 mg once a day,
Toprol XL 50 mg once a day, Diovan 80 mg once a day, Digoxin
0.125 mg once a day, Lipitor 20 mg once a day, Omeprazole 20
mg once a day, Dolobid one 3 times a day, potassium, aspirin
81 mg once a day, as well as some creams.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient had a temperature of 97.4,
heart rate of 82, blood pressure 133/50, respiratory rate of
20 and a saturation of 97% on 2 liters. In general she was
alert and oriented and in no acute distress with mild pallor
and obese. Her chest had bilateral crackles. Her
cardiovascular exam had a holosystolic murmur of [**3-28**]. Her
abdomen was obese and soft with positive epigastric and left
upper quadrant pain.

LABORATORY DATA:  Pertinent initial laboratory included an
initial sodium of 135, potassium 4.6, chloride 104,
bicarbonate 19, BUN 93, creatinine 3.0. Blood glucose is 78.
An initial CBC significant for a white blood cell count of
20.7, hematocrit 38.6 and a platelet count of 108,000. The
patient's LFTs were an ALT of 15, an AST of 78 and alkaline
phosphatase of 77. Amylase 113, T-bilirubin 0.6, and a lipase
of 152.

The patient's first blood gas on [**5-6**] had a pH of 7.2, an
O2 of 81, a CO2 of 41, bicarbonate 17 and a base excess with
negative 11.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In brief, the patient was noted to be in
anuric acute renal failure likely secondary to hypoperfusion
from this lower GI bleed. Subsequently her hospitalization
was complicated by sepsis, respiratory failure ultimately
requiring intubation, and the sepsis requiring several
antibiotics and several pressors. While the patient did make
some progress on all these fronts, the patient ultimately
decided on a consultation with multiple attending surgeons,
as well as social work to become comfort measures only and
was placed on a morphine drip and ultimately expired early on
the morning of [**5-18**].

Problems by systems, briefly in terms of cardiovascular, the
patient had an echo that showed an ejection fraction of 65%.
No atrial stenosis initially on admission. However, likely
because of her septic shock and GI bleeding, the patient
required Levophed to maintain her systolic blood pressure. In
addition, because of her complicated hemodynamic status, she
initially required monitoring with a Swan Ganz catheter,
which was ultimately changed to a triple lumen catheter on
hospital day 6. Early on multiple attempts were made to wean
the Levophed, which was found to be extremely difficult. Her
urine output was often dependent upon the presence of
Levophed. The patient was ultimately discontinued on Levophed
on [**2173-5-12**]. However, her blood pressures remained
intermittently low. Following this the cardiology service was
ultimately consulted in search of another pressor [**Doctor Last Name 360**],
which they were unable to determine. The patient's Levophed
was now discontinued for good until the day prior to the
patient's death on [**2173-5-17**].

From a respiratory standpoint the patient was initially not
intubated and was able to maintain her oxygenation. However,
she developed a right lower lung opacity and a pneumonia, as
well as a pleural effusion and became obtunded. On hospital
day 6 she ultimately required intubation. The patient
remained intubated until hospital day 10, at which time she
was made do not intubate and was extubated. The patient
remained extubated until the time of her death.

From a GI perspective the patient was given high doses of IV
Protonix for her duodenal ulcer. This high dose of Protonix
was maintained for the majority of the patient's admission.
The patient was also noted at some point to have evidence of
cirrhosis.

From a fluid, electrolyte and nutrition perspective, the
patient was given TPN during the admission and was
intermittently bolused and then diuresed depending on her
volume status.

From a renal perspective the patient's anuria ultimately
resolved and her creatinine slowly drifted down once better
renal perfusion was achieved with the use of Levophed and IV
fluids, and the patient began making urine several days after
admission. Her creatinine on admission as stated previously
was 3.0 and ultimately trended down to 1.0. However, in the
final days of the patient's life the creatinine trended back
up to 1.3 at the time of her death. It was believed that thus
her renal failure was secondary to hyperperfusion as a renal
ultrasound on admission was within normal limits. The renal
service followed the patient throughout the patient's
admission.

From an ID perspective, the patient was initially admitted on
oxacillin for her cellulitis. However, because of the
development of right lower lobe pneumonia the patient was
switched to levofloxacin and vancomycin. Flagyl was
subsequently added to her regimen. Fluconazole was
subsequently added. The fluconazole was added for the
presence of yeast in her urine. The yeast was subsequently
changed to voriconazole and at the time of the patient's
death she was noted to be on Vancomycin, Levophed,
fluconazole, erythromycin and amoxicillin.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient's condition on discharge
was deceased. Her discharge status was deceased.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Upper gastrointestinal bleed.
2. Acute renal failure.
3. Pneumonia.
4. Sepsis.
5. Respiratory failure.
6. Urinary tract infection.
7. Cellulitis.


DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  No discharge medications and
obviously no follow up plans.



                        [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], [**MD Number(1) 23293**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 39725**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2173-5-18**] 12:19:26
T:  [**2173-5-18**] 13:50:59
Job#:  [**Job Number 39726**]
