Admission Date:  [**2102-3-13**]       Discharge Date:  [**2102-3-31**]

Date of Birth:   [**2024-2-25**]       Sex:  F

Service:

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Acute abdomen.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Superior mesenteric artery thrombosis.
2.  Ischemic small bowel.
3.  Status post superior mesenteric artery thrombectomy with
vein patch angioplasty.
4.  Status post small-bowel resection.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 79-year-old
woman transferred from [**Hospital 1474**] Hospital with abdominal pain
beginning a few days ago.  The abdominal pain progressed to
bloody diarrhea.

Of note, the patient had chronic atrial fibrillation
secondary to bloody diarrhea and had stopped her Coumadin on
[**2102-3-10**].

A computed tomography scan at [**Hospital 1474**] Hospital suggested the
diagnosis of a superior mesenteric artery embolus, and the
patient also arrived with a white blood cell count of 44,000;
but no fever or acidosis.

The patient was transferred to the General Surgery Service
and Vascular Surgery Service for operative intervention.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic atrial fibrillation.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Hypothyroidism.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Home medications included)
1.  Coumadin (last dose on [**2102-3-10**]).
2.  Levoxyl.
3.  Potassium.
4.  Lasix.
5.  Premarin.

ALLERGIES:  Allergy to CODEINE.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Gentleman physical
examination on admission revealed the patient was an elderly
woman who was alert and with slurred speech.  Vital signs
revealed temperature was 97.9, heart rate was 130 (in atrial
fibrillation), blood pressure was 127/69, and oxygen
saturation was 94% on room air.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination revealed extraocular movements were
intact.  Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.
Sclerae were anicteric.  The throat was clear.  Edentulous.
The neck was supple with no masses or lymphadenopathy.  Chest
was clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed irregularly irregular with no murmurs,
rubs, or gallops.  The abdomen was significant for positive
bowel sounds.  There is significant tenderness diffusely
through the abdomen with no guarding.  Rectal examination was
significant for guaiac-positive stool.  Extremities were
warm, with no cyanosis, and no edema times four.  Neurologic
examination was grossly intact; although it was difficult to
assess with slurred speech.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission with a complete blood count which revealed 44,
hematocrit was 42, and platelets were 397.  Sodium was 136,
potassium was 3.6, chloride was 93, bicarbonate was 25, blood
urea nitrogen was 16, creatinine was 0.9, and blood glucose
was 88.  Arterial blood gas revealed pH was 7.47, PCO2 was
35, PO2 was 75, bicarbonate was 26.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Abdominal computed tomography
was significant for the suggestion of an occluded superior
mesenteric artery, also a dilated small bowel, and no free
fluid.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was transferred for emergent
management of probable superior mesenteric artery thrombosis
or occlusion.  The patient was taken to the operating room by
the General Surgery Service and Vascular Surgery Service.

In the operating room, the patient had superior mesenteric
artery thrombectomy with a vein patch angioplasty and
significant small-bowel resection.  Please see the previously
dictated Operative Reports for further details.

In the postoperative period, the patient was managed in the
Intensive Care Unit.  She was initially kept intubated and
sedated and was given total parenteral nutrition for
parenteral nutrition.  She was closely monitored, and as she
began to mobilize her fluids she was then actively diuresed
and subsequently extubated without event.

The patient remained on a heparin drip for appropriate
anticoagulation.  This was done in consultation with the
Neurology Service.  She was also maintained on ampicillin,
ceftriaxone, Flagyl for broad spectrum antibiotic coverage.

Her atrial fibrillation was controlled using a combination of
metoprolol and diltiazem.

The patient was noted to have some vaginal prolapse which was
quite severe and eventually became nonreducible.  The
Gynecology Service was consulted and recommended simple
followup as an outpatient.

As the patient's clinical status improved and bowel function
returned, her diet was advanced as tolerated.  She was felt
to be an aspiration risk, and a bedside swallowing study
revealed no acute risk of aspiration; although, did not have
in her false teeth at that time.

Eventually, the patient was transferred to the floor where
she continued to do well.  She did have multiple bowel
movements per day and was Clostridium difficile negative
times four.

Ultimately, the patient was discharged on postoperative day
16.  The patient was tolerating a regular diet with adequate
pain control on oral pain medications.  The patient was
ambulating with assistance.

The rest of this dictation will by issue/system:

1.  NEUROLOGIC ISSUES:  The patient came in with baseline
slurred speech, and there was some concern for a
cerebrovascular accident given her embolic event.

The Neurology Service was consulted on postoperative day one,
and a head computed tomography scan was obtained.  The head
computed tomography was consistent with a small subacute
infarction in the right temporal lobe, left thalamus, and
left insular cortex.  No hemorrhage, or mass effect, and no
shift.

Neurology assessment stated the patient was back to baseline;
although, she did continue to have slurred speech throughout
her hospital stay.  The Neurology consultation was obtained
prior to surgery.

Postoperatively, the patient was maintained sedated in the
Intensive Care Unit until she could be weaned from her
ventilator.  After this, she had a few episodes of agitation
which were controlled by Ativan.  Otherwise, the patient was
neurologically intact.

2.  RESPIRATORY ISSUES:  Postoperatively, the patient
remained intubated.  She initially had quite a bit of extra
fluid volume on board, and the ventilator wean was very slow
and prolonged due to this reason.

It was felt that her airway was probably quite edematous, and
that if the patient was extubated prematurely reintubation
would be extraordinarily difficult.  Thus, extubation was
only done after the patient had automatically diuresed a
significant amount.

After this, the patient really had no respiratory issues.
She never had pneumonia or pneumothorax by multiple central
line placements.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  The patient remained in chronic
atrial fibrillation throughout her stay.  Her heart rate was
maintained using a combination of Lopressor and diltiazem.
She was never seen to be back in a normal sinus rhythm.

An echocardiogram was obtained which did rule out clot.  Of
note, the echocardiogram did show mild-to-moderate mitral
regurgitation.  For further details, please see the
echocardiogram report of [**2102-3-23**].

The patient was maintained on a therapeutic heparin drip
throughout her hospitalization until she was taking oral
intake.  At that time, she was begun on oral Coumadin.  The
heparin was discontinued after the INR became 2 or greater.

4.  GASTROINTESTINAL ISSUES:  The patient showed slow return
of bowel function.  She was begun on a clear liquid diet and
advanced as tolerated.

On at least one occasion she was seen to be choking on her
clears, and a bedside swallow study was made.  They could not
definitively rule out the risk of aspiration and recommended
ground foods with thin liquids.  The patient seemed to do
well this afterward; although, she did not take large amounts
of oral intake.

Of note, the patient did have multiple liquid stools after
her oral diet was restored.  She tested negative for
Clostridium difficile times four.

The patient was also begun on Questran in an attempt to slow
her bowel movements.  This was done because a significant
portion of the ileum was removed, and it was thought that the
patient may not be absorbing her bile salts.

5.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient was initially
begun on broad spectrum triple