Admission Date:  [**2137-1-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2137-1-30**]

Date of Birth:   [**2082-6-12**]     Sex:  F

Service:  C MED

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest and back pain and lethargy.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54-year-old
white female with a long history of labile hypertension,
multiple lacunar infarcts who presented to an outside
hospital, [**Hospital3 4527**] on [**2137-1-27**] with a complaint of
chest pain times one day and back pain times one week which
was worse today rated [**9-18**].  Her husband thought she was
more sleepy and fatigued than usual.  Given her history of
stroke, they brought her to the Emergency Room.  When she
arrived, her systolic blood pressure was in the 70s and she
was given multiple liters of normal saline and started on
Dopamine with some increase in her systolic blood pressures.
She described her pain as dull, occurring intermittently,
radiating to her jaw and left arm.  She does have a DDD
pacemaker so her electrocardiogram was difficult to
interpret, however, there was one electrocardiogram done at
the outside hospital that had a possibility of anterior ST
elevations.  There were concern that she was having cardiac
ischemia.  After the dopamine and intravenous fluids, her
blood pressure ultimately rose and she was started on
intravenous nitroglycerin for question of cardiac ischemia.
She was transferred to [**Hospital6 256**]
for potential cardiac catheterization.

On arrival to [**Hospital6 256**], her chest
and back pain had resolved on the intravenous nitroglycerin.
She gave an additional history of nausea, vomiting and
diarrhea up to seven stools per day for one week with fevers
and chills to 101 and decreased po intake for one week,
however, she reports she continued to take all of her blood
pressure medication.  An electrocardiogram was repeated in
our Emergency Room that did not show any significant changes
from one done on the previous admission in [**2136-10-10**].
There were no acute ST and T wave changes and she was chest
and back pain free.  However, given her extreme hypotension
and description of severe back pain at the outside hospital,
a bedside transesophageal echocardiogram was performed to
rule out aortic dissection.  She is unable to get MRI
secondary to having a pacer and she has a severe allergy to
intravenous dye.  The transesophageal echocardiogram revealed
hyperdynamic left ventricle with normal left ventricular
function, no pleural effusion.  No obvious wall motion
abnormalities and no evidence of aortic dissection.  She was
therefore admitted to the [**Hospital6 13568**] for rule out
myocardial infarction and further evaluation and management
of her labile blood pressures and symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension since age 13.  Has been very labile in the
    past.  She was admitted in [**2136-10-10**] for lacunar
    infarcts and blood pressure control.  She had a past
    work-up for secondary causes of hypertension which have
    all been negative.  This includes pheochromocytoma,
    [**Location (un) **] syndrome, hyperaldosteronism, carcinoid syndrome
    and she has had multiple renal ultrasounds to evaluate
    for bilateral renal artery stenosis which have been
    negative per her primary care physician.
2.  History of multiple lacunar infarcts since [**2118**].  She
    usually presents with left-sided symptoms including left
    facial, arm and leg weakness, dysarthria, dysphasia and
    clumsiness.  She still has several residual deficits from
    prior infarcts.  She has increased left-sided tone with
    contractures from her previous infarcts.
3.  DDD pacemaker implanted for possible complete heart
    block, although the patient is unsure.
4.  Mild asthma.
5.  Gout.
6.  Cataract in the left eye.
7.  She does not have any urinary sensation and urinates on a
    routine daily scheduled.

ALLERGIES:  To Penicillin, aspirin, Tylenol, Beclovent,
Percocet and intravenous dye, which gives her hypotension
resulting in a stroke many years ago.  Question of allergy to
Nitepride.

MEDICATIONS:  Clonidine 0.7 mg po t.i.d., Labetalol 400 mg po
b.i.d., Carvedilol 18.75 mg po q.a.m. and 12.5 mg po q.p.m.,
Zestril 10 mg po q.d., Plavix 75 mg po q.d., Flexeril 10 mg
po t.i.d., Intal 2 puffs t.i.d., colchicine 0.6 mg prn gout,
Lasix 20 mg po q.d., Lomotil b.i.d. prn, Urecholine 25 mg po
q.i.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her husband and works as a
bookkeeper for his contracting company.  No tobacco, no
alcohol.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Multiple family members with hypertension,
strokes and renal failure.  Her mother died of a brain
hemorrhage and had hypertension and renal disease.  Her
father died of hypertensive stroke.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She complains of shortness of breath and
dyspnea on exertion when walking 30 feet.  For the past week
she has had fevers to 101 with nausea, vomiting and diarrhea,
up to seven stools per day.  No bloody bowel movements or
melena.  Occasional abdominal pain.  She notes decreased
urine output times two months with hematuria for three days,
two weeks prior to this admission.  No headaches, no visual
changes.  She complains of fluid retention times two months
with edema of her lower extremity and hand.  She complains of
worsening gout over the past three weeks.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature afebrile.  Pulse 84.
Respirations 15.  Blood pressure 122/70.  O2 saturation 99%
on room air.  In general, no apparent distress, alert and
oriented times three, but sleep, but easily arousable.  Slow
speech.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat, pupils equal,
round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.
Sclerae are anicteric.  Dry mucous membranes.  Neck supple,
no carotid bruits.  Cardiovascular, regular rate and rhythm,
normal S1, S2, 2/6 systolic murmur at the left lower sternal
border.  Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally with the
exception of crackles at the left base.  Abdomen is obese,
soft, nontender, positive bowel sounds, guaiac negative in
the Emergency Room.  Extremities with 1+ pitting edema
bilaterally.  Lower extremities with bilateral hand edema.
Back, left greater than right CVA tenderness.  Neurologic
exam, cranial nerves intact.  Left upper extremity with
contracture and left lower extremity and upper extremity with
weakness.

LABORATORY STUDIES AT THE OUTSIDE HOSPITAL:  Reveals a sodium
of 137, potassium 3.6, chloride 99, bicarbonate 22.6, BUN of
43, creatinine of 4.0 and glucose of 121.  White count of 5.1
with 63% neutrophils, hematocrit 34.0, platelet count
173,000.  Normal coagulation studies.  Initial CK is 105 with
an MB of 1.73 and an index of 1.6.  First troponin less than
0.2.

Electrocardiogram on admission revealed normal sinus rhythm
with a rate of 80, first degree AV delay and a prolonged QTC
interval of 479.  There was T wave flattening in III and aVF.
No significant change from [**10/2136**].

Chest x-ray at the outside hospital demonstrated low lung
volumes, but no infiltrates and no edema.

A bedside Emergency Room transesophageal echocardiogram
demonstrated normal left ventricular and right ventricular
function on limited views.  There was mild to moderate aortic
regurgitation, trace mitral regurgitation.  The visualized
portions of the ascending, descending and transverse aorta
were not dilated and no dissection was identified.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the [**Hospital6 21665**] for further work-up and evaluation of her chest and
back pain, as well as her labile blood pressures.  She was
ruled out for myocardial infarction with three negative CKs
and two negative troponins.  She was monitored on telemetry
with no significant events.  A VQ scan was obtained on [**1-29**]
which was read as low probability for pulmonary embolus.  A
chest x-ray was also obtained which revealed a small left
pleural effusion, otherwise, there was no change compared to
previous film in [**2136-2-8**].  Given that she had ruled out
for myocardial infarction, aortic dissection and pulmonary
embolus, it was felt that her profound hypotension on
presentation to the outside was most likely related to
hypovolemia given her nausea, vomiting and diarrhea for one
week wi