Admission Date:  [**2104-11-13**]       Discharge Date:  [**2104-12-2**]


Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Fatigue.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 88 year old woman
with past medical history of CLL, tuberculosis, status post
nine months of medical treatment; nephrolithiasis; recurrent
urinary tract infection; chronic renal insufficiency with
baseline creatinine between 1.5 and 2, who presented to the
Emergency Department for malaise.  The patient reported that
she had been feeling great fatigue for a few weeks and had
decreased p.o. intake.  She was having no abdominal pain,
nausea and vomiting or diarrhea.  She did complain of some
chronic constipation.  She was having no urinary symptoms
such as urgency, frequency or dysuria. She was initially
concerned that the fatigue might represent recurrence of her
anemia.  She has required previous transfusions related to
decreased hematocrit from CLL.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.) Tuberculosis; finishing a nine
month course of drugs.  2.) CLL.  3.) Hypothyroidism.  4.)
Nephrolithiasis.  5.) Recurrent urinary tract infection.  6.)
Chronic renal failure.  7.) Osteoporosis.  8.) Peripheral
vascular disease.  9.) IGM paraproteinemia.

HOME MEDICATIONS:
Chlorambucil.
Colace.
Fosamax.
Isoniazid.
Lasix.
Levothyroxine.
Metamucil.
Protonic.
B-6.
Potassium.
Urecholine.
Quinine.
Rifampin.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in a building for the
elderly. Her niece, who is her closest living relative,
visits two to three times per week.  She receives some help
from her niece with her activities of daily living but
appears to be fairly self sufficient.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Upon arrival, vital signs reveal a
temperature of 99.3; heart rate of 90; blood pressure 122/55;
respiratory rate of 25; 100% saturation on room air.  This is
a cachectic, elderly woman, noted to be tachypneic.  Pupils
were equal, round and reactive to light with full extraocular
motions.  She had anicteric sclera.  Her neck was supple,
with mild anterior tenderness over the area of the thyroid,
which the patient reports is not new.  Regular rate and
rhythm; normal S1 and S2; coarse breath sounds were noted,
but no rhonchi, rales or wheezes.  Her abdomen was flat with
poor muscle tone. There were positive bowel sounds and
diffuse mild tenderness to deep palpation. Pitting edema was
noted to the knee; left greater than right.  Cranial nerves
were intact and the patient had normal strength and sensation
to light touch.

LABORATORY DATA:  CBC showed a white count of 18.4.  The
patient's baseline white count is around 20, secondary to her
CLL.  Hemoglobin was 8.6; hematocrit was 27.7; platelet count
of 55.  Platelets were noted to be in the 40's to 50's since
[**Month (only) 116**].  Chemistry 7 showed a sodium of 140; potassium of 4.8;
chloride of 112; C02 of 10; BUN of 104; creatinine of 4.9 and
glucose of 113.  Her calcium was 9.5; magnesium was 2.2;
phosphorus of 7.5.  Urinalysis was cloudy, with moderate LE
and positive nitrites, large blood; 30 protein; 21 to 50
white blood cells; 3 to 5 red blood cells; rare bacteria; 0
to 2 epis.  Urine culture was sent.  Urine electrolytes and
osmolarity was sent, as well as urine eosinophils given the
drugs that she was taking.  Liver function tests and TSH were
also sent at that time.

Arterial blood gases on the Emergency Department was 7.26,
20, 104, 9, negative 15, with a lactate of 0.7.  She had a
chest x-ray done in the Emergency Department showing
bilateral patchy opacities that may be secondary to
atelectasis or low lung volume.

A renal ultrasound was ordered at that time but was still
pending.  The patient was admitted to the floor for acute on
chronic renal failure with noticeable elevated anion gap,
metabolic acidosis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The [**Doctor First Name **] was well above one, arguing
against a prerenal cause of her acute renal failure.  The
positive urinary tract infection was treated with
Ciprofloxacin.  The renal ultrasound acquired on the night of
admission showed severe right hydronephrosis with a 16 mm
stone in the lower pole of the right kidney.  An atrophic
cortex was noted in that kidney. The left kidney was not well
visualized but in previous imaging done in [**2104-11-3**]
had severe hydronephrosis. CT non contrast of the abdomen was
taken as well, which showed a very atrophic left kidney as
well as right hydro.  Given the presence of obstructive
uropathy, as well as evidence of infection in the urinalysis,
a urology consult was called the night of admission. Urology
evaluated the patient and recommended watching the cultures
and fever curve and continuing antibiotics and intravenous
hydration.  A formal renal consult was called the following
morning, in order to fully evaluate her acute renal failure.

Her tuberculosis medications were discontinued, secondary to
concerns for INH exacerbating her acidosis as well as concern
that multiple medications have been previously implicated as
a cause of acute interstitial nephritis.  The Ciprofloxacin
was dosed for her estimated creatinine clearance for her
urinary tract infection.  She received intravenous fluids
with b1 to attempt to compensate for her acidosis and her
chemistries and arterial blood gases were monitored.  Renal
felt there were multiple possible causes for the acute
episode of renal failure, including infection, dehydration,
medications and chronic obstruction.

The patient's creatinine started to decline by hospital day
number two to three, into the lower 4's.  She continued to
have good urine output and was never oliguric.  Her urine was
noted to be cloudy yellow and have some particulate matter in
it.  Urinalysis clearly showed pyuria but cultures remained
negative during the hospital stay. This prompted a search
later in the stay for urinary tuberculosis, which ultimately
was negative.  The patient continued to receive intravenous
fluids with bicarbonate as well as Ciprofloxacin for presumed
urinary tract infection and her creatinine continued to
improve.  There was an ongoing discussion between the renal
service, urology service and medicine service, with regards
to help as to handle this episode of renal failure.  Her
creatinine had clearly been climbing slowly over the last two
years, in the setting of a chronic obstructive uropathy.
Urology was not included during this visit to engage in any
lithotripsy or attempt to break up or remove the stone
sitting in the right kidney.  They were concerned about her
comorbidities as well as her low platelet count from CLL.
There was discussion of a possibility of a percutaneous
nephrostomy for the right kidney, in order to attempt to
relieve the obstruction and hence preserve some kidney
function and stave off the need for ultimate dialysis.  This
option was presented to the patient and a discussion of the
risks and benefits of that procedure was discussed.
Ultimately, the patient decided that she did not wish to
pursue a PCN.

Over the week-end of the [**11-16**], the patient
developed persistent wheezing that was not particularly
responsive to Albuterol and Atrovent nebs.  She had no known
history of asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Since her bicarbonate had normalized, intravenous fluids with
bicarbonate were held.  Repeated chest x-ray showed evidence
of mild failure.  Given the absence of history of lung
disease, the wheezing was preliminarily presumed to be a
cardiac wheeze, as a result of hydration for the renal
failure. By this point, her creatinine had continued to fall
and was now under 3.0 so the decision was made to add some
Lasix diuresis prn in order to improve her congestive heart
failure.  The patient responded beautifully to small doses of
intravenous Lasix in the range of 20 mg and was easily
diuresed about negative half a liter per day for several
days.  Despite successful diuresis, her wheezes continued and
she continued to have shortness of breath.  An arterial blood
gases was performed on the 16th showing a pH of 7.35, PC02 of
50; P02 of 60; bicarbonate of 29 and base excess of 0.  She
was maintained on oxygen at all times, including during
ambulation, given her low P02.  The cau