Admission Date: [**2116-2-21**]        Discharge Date: [**2116-2-28**]

Date of Birth:  [**2043-5-20**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT/HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 43921**] is a
72 year old man who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting
times three as well as Maze procedure on [**2-12**], with an
unremarkable postoperative course.  He was discharged to
rehabilitation on [**2-18**] on Amiodarone and Coumadin for
his atrial fibrillation.  He presented to the Emergency Room
on [**2-21**], with bloody drainage from the lower aspect of
his sternal wound.  The drainage began suddenly on the day of
assessment following a coughing episode.  It was not
associated with any chest pain or increasing shortness of
breath.  The patient also denies fevers, chills and redness
about the wound.  He was transferred from the Emergency Room
at [**Hospital **] Hospital to Far 2 at [**Hospital6 2018**].  A chest x-ray showed misaligned sternal layers in
the inferior sternum with no infiltrates.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery
disease, status post coronary artery bypass grafting times
three with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to the
posterior descending coronary artery and saphenous vein graft
to the obtuse marginal, paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation/flutter, status post Maze procedure done during
coronary artery bypass grafting, hypercholesterolemia,
noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus, history of urosepsis,
history of colon carcinoma, hypertension, degenerative joint
disease, abdominal aortic aneurysm, bilateral cataract
surgery, colon resection and bilateral total knee
replacement.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone, remote tobacco
history, quit 18 years ago and alcohol use is limited to one
drink per day.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father died of prostate cancer, otherwise
insignificant.

ALLERGIES:  The patient states no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin 81 once daily, Lasix 20
b.i.d., Colace 100 b.i.d., potassium chloride 20 b.i.d.,
Percocet prn, Glipizide 2.5 once daily, Amiodarone 400
b.i.d., Lipitor 40 once daily, Lopressor 50 b.i.d. and
Coumadin 7.5 once daily.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.9, heart rate 67, blood
pressure 138/62, respiratory rate 24, oxygen saturation 94
percent on 3 liters.  Neurologically alert and oriented times
three on focal examination.  Cardiovascular, irregular rhythm
with no murmur, rubs or gallops and no jugular venous
distension.  Respiratory, coarse breath sounds, decreased at
the bases, sternal wound with serosanguinous drainage, no
surrounding erythema, fluctuance or tenderness.  Abdomen is
soft, nontender, nondistended with normoactive bowel sounds.

DICTATION ENDED



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1714**], [**MD Number(1) 1715**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1718**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2116-2-27**] 16:01:21
T:  [**2116-2-27**] 16:52:27
Job#:  [**Job Number 43924**]
