Admission Date:  [**2145-11-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2145-12-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2072-11-23**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Cadiothoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 70 year old female
with a past medical history significant for hypertension,
noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus, complete heartblock
status post permanent pacemaker placement five or six years
ago, status post corneal transplants in the past.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Glyburide, Metformin, Norvasc,
Aspirin.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 70 year old female who presented
to [**Hospital1 **] Mishoba, [**11-27**] with acute shortness of
breath and was found to be in pulmonary edema.  She was
intubated and rule din for an anterior myocardial infarction
with a peak creatinine kinase of 530 and a troponin I of 8.5.
 The patient's admission was complicated by fevers to 100.8
with a cough.  The patient was started on Ceftriaxone at that
time and then Levaquin.  She was extubated on [**11-28**],
without incident and transferred to [**Hospital6 649**] for cardiac catheterization.  The patient
underwent cardiac catheterization [**2145-12-2**] which
revealed an ejection fraction of about 30%, left main
coronary artery with short diffuse mild disease, left
anterior descending artery proximally with 70% disease, left
circumflex with minor disease and the right coronary artery
with diffuse moderate disease throughout the mid vessel with
more focal sequential 80% lesion.  The patient underwent
coronary artery bypass grafting times three [**12-3**], with
left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending,
reverse saphenous vein graft from aorta to obtuse marginal,
reverse saphenous vein graft from aorta to the right coronary
artery.  The patient had a total cardiopulmonary bypass time
of 65 minutes and total crossclamp time of 34 minutes.  The
patient was transferred in stable condition to the Cardiac
Surgery Recovery Unit, being atrial paced at 80, on Milrinone
at .5, Neo-Synephrine at .5 and Propofol at 20.  On
postoperative day #1 status post three vessel coronary artery
bypass grafting the patient's 24 hour vents included low
urine output with the administration of Lasix as well as the
administration of three units of packed red blood cells.  The
patient was afebrile, vital signs were stable, still on
Milrinone at .25 with a cardiac index of 3.1.  The patient
was extubated over the last 24 hours and was currently on 4
liters of nasal cannula with good oxygen saturation.  Plan
for the day was to discontinue the Milrinone and to continue
to follow the patient's hematocrit with the last one being
31.8.  Electrophysiology came by to see the patient on
postoperative day #1 in order to adjust permanent pacemaker
to a rate of 80.  They attempted to interrogate the
pacemaker, however, it did not appear to be [**Company 1543**],
Guidant or St. [**Male First Name (un) 923**] pacemaker and the chest x-ray did not
reveal what type of pacemaker the patient had, therefore they
suggested an epicardial pacing system to DDD at 80 to obtain
the brand of the pacemaker, if the parameters needed to be
changed then to reconsult the Electrophysiology Service as
needed.  On postoperative day #2, 24 hour events included low
urine output which the patient responded well with Lasix.
The patient was started on Dopamine at 2, still on
nitroglycerin drip at .75.  The patient remained afebrile,
vital signs were stable being intermittently ventricularly
paced at 77 with a white count and hematocrit stable, BUN 35,
creatinine 1.7.  Plan was to discontinue the Dopamine and to
administer Lasix 80 mg intravenously b.i.d. and Lopressor.
Renal came by to see the patient, due to the patient's
decreased urine output and suspected acute renal failure at
which point they felt that this chronic renal failure was
almost certainly due to the prerenal physiology in the
setting of congestive heart failure and they thought that
unless the respiratory status of the patient worsened, they
would favor avoiding further loop diuretics.  They thought
that if blood pressure increases to greater than 140 to start
Hydralazine +/- nitrate for afterload reduction which would
improve the patient's renal perfusion, and they felt that
once the patient's renal function was stable, the patient
could be started on ACE inhibitor.  On postoperative day #3
24 hour events included the helping of Dopamine and the
administration of Lasix 80 mg intravenously b.i.d. as well as
low dose Lopressor.  The patient's physical examination
remained unchanged.  The patient was alert and oriented times
three, B and V paced at 73 with a stable hematocrit and a
white count of 16.3.  BUN was 45, creatinine 1.9.  Renal came
by and saw the patient again at which time they suggested
giving a standing dose of Hydralazine 10 mg intravenously q.
6 hours to promote forward flow to add Nitroglycerin if the
blood pressure allowed, to back off on the diuretic, to dose
the medications for a creatinine clearance of 30 to 40 cc/min
and to start Sodium Carbonate 650 mg p.o. b.i.d. for after
doses.  On postoperative day #4 24 hour events included the
removal of pacing wires, increasing the Lopressor dose to 25
mg p.o. b.i.d. as well as starting Sodium Bicarbonate and
Glucotrol.  The patient also had a bout of hypertension over
night with a fluid bolus.  Vital signs remained stable.  The
patient was afebrile, sating at 95% on 2 liters of nasal
cannula.  Physical examination remained unchanged with a
white count 13 and hematocrit of 32, BUN 53, creatinine 2
with plan to decrease the Lopressor in the setting of
hypertension over night and to follow up on the patient's BUN
and creatinine with the possibility of discontinuing the
patient's Lasix.  Renal again came by to see the patient at
which time they agreed to hold the diuretics.  They also
suggested the standing Hydralazine as stated earlier, 10 q. 6
p.o.  They felt that the metabolic acidosis was improving but
to continue Sodium Bicarbonate now and they also thought that
the patient would probably need a renal follow up after the
patient was discharged.

The patient was transferred to the floor on [**2145-12-7**]
in stable condition.  Postoperative day #5 the patient
remained afebrile, vital signs were stable with a decrease in
white count to 13, stable hematocrit with plan to increase
the patient's Lopressor dose from 12.5 b.i.d. back up to 25
mg p.o. b.i.d.  The patient later during the day started
having some mild shortness of breath at which time the
patient's physical examination revealed mild crackles
bilaterally and with stable vital signs with a plan to check
the patient's electrocardiogram.  The patient was still 12 kg
over the preoperative weight, therefore the patient was
likely to have some fluid overload given the patient's
ejection fraction of 30%.  The plan was to check chest x-ray
and to administer 20 mg intravenously of Lasix.  An
electrocardiogram was performed which revealed no change from
the electrocardiogram performed [**2145-12-3**].  On
postoperative day #6 the patient reported feeling well that
morning.  On physical examination the patient was alert and
out of bed.  Because the patient was 12 kg above the
preoperative weight, the patient was given Lasix 20 mg
intravenously times one for pulmonary edema by examination
and chest x-ray with the patient breathing much more easily
that morning compared to the day prior.  Vital signs were
stable, putting out sufficient urine with a white count of
12.1, hematocrit of 34.6, BUN 38, creatinine 1.4.  On
physical examination the lungs were clear now.  Extremities
were warm with some mild peripheral edema.  Plan was to start
a standing dose of Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d., to continue the
patient's Lopressor and probably add an ACE inhibitor for
further blood pressure control.  On postoperative day #7, the
patient was afebrile with vital signs stable with complaints
of mild shortness of breath on exertion, sating greater than
97% on room air.  Lasix was given 20 mg p.o., diuresing
greater than 400 cc after the Lasix was administered.  The
patient's only remaining issue was with physical therapy a