Admission Date:  [**2114-6-22**]       Discharge Date:  [**2114-6-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2050-9-4**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 60-year-old Caucasian
male with cardiac risk factors of hypertension and tobacco
use who was transferred from [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital with an
acute myocardial infarction after a failed attempt to place
an intra-aortic balloon pump for cardiogenic shock.

Of note, the patient's father passed away on the night prior
to the patient's arrival.  He was [**Age over 90 **] years old.

The patient went to sleep and reported chest pain at 8:30
a.m. with diaphoresis and nausea.  He daughter called for
emergency medical technician.  He was found to have ST
elevations in leads II, III, aVF, and V1 through V6.  He also
had ST depressions in leads I and aVL.  He was found to have
a blood pressure of 60/palp and was saturating at 98% on room
air.

He was taken to [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital Catheterization
Laboratory for intra-aortic balloon pump placement for
cardiogenic shock secondary an inferior myocardial infarction
with a plan to bridge to [**Hospital1 69**]
for revascularization.  While in the Catheterization
Laboratory, the patient was noted to have an occluded iliac,
and the intra-aortic balloon pump was unable to be placed.
The Catheterization Laboratory course was significant for an
episode of heart block.  Pacing wires were placed, and the
patient was given atropine 1 mg intravenously times one.  He
proceeded to have an episode of ventricular fibrillation and
was given amiodarone and lidocaine; at which point he came
out of this rhythm.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] after being intubated.

The patient arrived at the [**Hospital1 188**] Catheterization Laboratory at 12:40 p.m. and was found
to have markedly elevated filling pressures with equalization
of diastolic filling pressures; thought to have an right
ventricular myocardial infarction.

Catheterization showed a 70% mid left anterior descending
artery stenosis, a 50% mid left circumflex, and an occlusion
of the right coronary artery which was stented with normal
flow.  Abdominal aortography showed a abdominal aortic
aneurysm with patent renal arthritis and aneurysmal iliac
arteries.  He was noted to have a 60% proximal right iliac
without gradient and a 60% mid left iliac at the site of
dissection with non-flow-limiting dissection and flow into
the femoral arteries through the true lumen.

In the Catheterization Laboratory, the patient received Ancef
1 g intravenously, Versed, nitroglycerin drip, heparin bolus,
Fentanyl, Atrovent, propofol drip, and Lasix 40 mg
intravenously times one.  He was placed on a ventilator at AC
50% FIO2, tidal volume of 800, respiratory rate of 14, and a
positive end-expiratory pressure of 5.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Obesity.
3.  Positive tobacco use.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications as an outpatient
included hydrochlorothiazide (the patient has not been taking
this).

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a long-time smoker.  The
patient's father died one day prior to arrival at the age of
92.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history questionable for coronary
artery disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed temperature was afebrile, blood pressure was
70s/palp, heart rate was 69, and respiratory rate was 14.  In
general, the patient was in no apparent distress.  Sedated
and intubated.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed no jugular venous distention.  The chest
was clear to auscultation bilaterally/anteriorly.
Cardiovascular examination revealed distant heart sounds.  A
regular rate and rhythm.  Unable to appreciate any murmurs,
rubs, or gallops.  The abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended, and obese.  Extremity examination revealed 2+
dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally with a right groin venous
sheath.  Neurologic examination revealed sedated.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed white blood cell count was 15.2, hematocrit was
47.7, and platelets were 293.  Sodium was 141, potassium was
5.1, chloride was 109, bicarbonate was 19, blood urea
nitrogen was 15, creatinine was 1.4, and blood glucose was
264.  INR was 1.4.  Amylase was 28, ALT was 45, and AST was
47.  Creatine kinase was 95.  Troponin was 1.3.  Hemoglobin
A1c was 7.  Arterial blood gas on admission revealed pH was
7.29, PCO2 was 46, PAO2 was 262, on AC, tidal volume was 700,
respiratory rate was 20, positive end-expiratory pressure was
5, and 100% FIO2.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  In short, this is a
60-year-old Caucasian male with cardiac risk factors
including hypertension, tobacco history, and questionable
family history who is status post inferior myocardial
infarction with right ventricular involvement; status post
inability to place intra-aortic balloon pump, transient
episodes of heart block and ventricular fibrillation, and
status post stent to the right coronary artery.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  (a)  Coronary artery disease:
The patient did quite well.  The patient's creatine
phosphokinase levels peaked on [**2114-6-23**] at 1633 with a MB
of 220, giving him an MB fraction of greater than 50.

The patient was started on aspirin 325 mg p.o. once per day,
Plavix 75 mg p.o. once per day, and Lipitor 10 mg p.o. once
per day.

Of note, his total cholesterol was found to be 212,
high-density lipoprotein was 21, and low-density lipoprotein
was 125, and triglycerides were 331.

The patient was also started on a beta blocker after he was
found not to be in any active failure.  The patient's
Lopressor was comfortably titrated up to 100 mg p.o. twice
per day.   The patient was also started on an ACE inhibitor
which was titrated up.  His is currently on lisinopril 10 mg
p.o. once per day.

The patient had no further chest pain or shortness of breath
after his catheterization.  Of note, the patient still had a
70% mid left anterior descending artery lesion that was not
addressed.  He will likely need a stress test as an
outpatient in about three months to re-evaluate the need to
intervene on this lesion.  The patient was urged to get on a
weight loss program in addition to starting a very mild
exercise regimen.  He will need to follow up with his
cardiologist at [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital.

(b)  Pump:  After admission, the patient was initially
maintained on dobutamine.  This was titrated off.

The patient had an echocardiogram on [**2114-6-22**].  This
showed normal left ventricular cavity size.  Ejection
fraction was greater than 55%.  This was a suboptimal study
technically, and a focal wall abnormality could not be
excluded.  The aortic valve leaflets and mitral valve
leaflets were mildly thickened.

The patient was started on an ACE inhibitor status post
myocardial infarction.  He was also aggressively diuresed
with Lasix 40 mg intravenously.  It was decided that given
the patient's right ventricular infarction, the patient
should not be on any standing Lasix but should only receive
it as needed.

(c)  Rhythm:  The patient had no further episodes of heart
block or ventricular fibrillation.  He will not go home on
any antiarrhythmics other than the beta blocker.

(d)  Blood pressure:  The patient's blood pressure was stable
status post extubation.  He will be continued on a beta
blocker and ACE inhibitor.

2.  ABDOMINAL AORTIC ANEURYSM ISSUES:  The patient has a
large 7-cm abdominal aortic aneurysm.  He was evaluated by
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1476**] in Vascular Surgery.  The patient's abdominal
aortic aneurysm will be evaluated with an abdominal
ultrasound which will be done during this hospitalization,
but was still pending at this time.  This will need to be
followed up.  If the patient is to have abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair, this will need to be done in the future when
he is more medically stable and not peri-myocardial
infarction.

3.  ENDOCRINE SYSTEM:  The patient was found to be
hyperglycemic while in house.  However, his hemoglobin A1c
was only 7.  We are holding on hyperglycemics as he is in a
