Admission Date:  [**2140-11-14**]     Discharge Date:  [**2140-11-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2062-11-7**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU [**Location (un) **]

NOTE:  This is a discharge summary to cover the patient's
initial hospital course and is transferred to he MICU.  A
discharge summary addendum will be following to summarize the
remaining portion of the hospital stay on the general medical
floor.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Seventy-eight year old male with
a history of type 2 diabetes, tachy-brady syndrome status
post pacemaker, hypertension, CRI, who presented with a one
week history of worsening shortness of breath and cough.
Patient has also noted increasing lower extremity edema and a
cough productive of grayish sputum over this time.  He also
noted fever to 100.2.  Patient has upper respiratory symptoms
including postnasal drip.  Patient needs increasing pillowed
needed five pillows on the night prior to admission for
comfortable sleep.

[**Name (NI) **] wife reported that the patient had increased amount
of fluid intake over the past week.  He reported no changes
in urinary habits.  No recent sick contacts.  Denied chest
pain, lightheadedness, arm pain, nausea, vomiting, or
abdominal pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Diabetes type 2 complicated by retinopathy.
2. Tachy-brady syndrome status post pacemaker in [**2139**].
3. PVD.
4. Hypertension.
5. Hypercholesterolemia.
6. Chronic renal insufficiency.
7. Anemia.
8. Atrial fibrillation.
9. Benign prostatic hypertrophy.

ALLERGIES:  Patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Coumadin 1 q.d.
2. Amiodarone 200 q.d.
3. Norvasc 5 q.d.
4. Prinivil 10 q.d.
5. Zocor 20 q.d.
6. Humulin 70/30 24 q.a.m., 7 q.p.m.
7. Lasix 20 q.d.
8. Metoprolol 25 q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 99.1, pulse 66,
blood pressure 108/45, respirations 24, sating 91% on room
air.  In general, this is an elderly male coughing, but in no
acute distress.  Examination was significant for JVD to the
jaw, no lymphadenopathy.  Coarse upper airway sounds
throughout the lung fields.  Dullness to percussion at the
bases.  Patient had a regular, rate, and rhythm, no murmurs,
rubs, or gallops, 2+ pitting edema was noted bilaterally.

LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION:  Significant for a white
count of 8.4, hematocrit 28.9.  Also significant for an INR
of 2.4, BUN 66, creatinine 3.3, former baseline had been
1.9-2.5.

On admission, the patient had a renal ultrasound which was
unremarkable.  No hydronephrosis.  Prostate mildly enlarged.
Chest x-ray showed evidence of CHF, patchy right lower lobe
opacities.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was admitted to the
Medicine unit.  On the 18th, the patient was transferred to
the CCU for fluid monitoring and subsequently on the same day
transferred to the MICU for fluid monitoring as well as
further care.  The patient was discharged from the MICU on
[**11-29**] to the General Medical floors.

1. Respiratory:  Patient with shortness of breath and
hypoxia.  Patient was admitted with oxygen saturations 91% on
room air, which declined to 95% on 2 liters.  On the day
after admission, the patient's oxygen requirement increased
to 98% on 6 liters.  Patient was originally diuresed for
presumed CHF.  Patient was given Lasix with worsening of his
pulmonary status.  An echocardiogram was performed at the
time on [**11-15**] which showed a normal EF, 1+ MR, and
mild pulmonary hypertension.  Did not explain the patient's
worsening pulmonary function.

Patient was treated for a pneumonia with levofloxacin and
Flagyl.  The patient received a full 10 day course of both of
these antibiotics.  Patient also was started on Vancomycin
during this hospital course for an increasing white count and
worsening chest x-ray.  Patient received five days of
Vancomycin, however, the cultures remained negative and this
was discontinued at the completion of the levofloxacin,
Flagyl combination.  Patient was diuresed with dialysis with
improvement in his oxygen saturation confirming the component
of congestive heart failure to the patient's respiratory
status.  In addition to being treated for pneumonia and
congestive heart failure, it was also believed that the
portion of the diffuse process in the patient's lungs may
have been due to amiodarone toxicity.

Patient was not started on steroids, however, the patient's
respiratory status improved and then remained constant during
his MICU stay.  Patient was not an optimal candidate for
steroids given his multiple other comorbidities.  It was
believed if the amiodarone was stopped and the patient's
respiratory status improved, this was not necessary.

2. Acute renal failure:  Patient had a FENa of less than 1%,
which indicated the patient was dry, however, the patient
also had muddy brown casts on urinalysis, was a mixed
picture.  Renal ultrasound did not indicate any signs of
obstruction.  Patient's renal function declined throughout
his hospital stay, and the patient required dialysis.  The
patient's decline in renal function over his baseline chronic
renal insufficiency may have been due to a hepatorenal type
picture in the setting of hepatitis due to amiodarone
toxicity.  Patient was dialyzed as needed, and the patient's
urinary function was improving at the time of discharge from
the MICU.  The patient began to have urine output again at
this time.

3. Liver:  Patient with increased LFTs.  Patient's liver
function tests were elevated on the [**11-16**].  A right
upper quadrant ultrasound showed cholelithiasis, no
cholecystitis.  A CT of the abdomen was performed on [**11-18**], which showed a hyperdense hepatic pattern which was
consistent with amiodarone effect.  Patient's amiodarone was
discontinued.  The patient's LFTs increased, where bilirubin
rising to approximately 16, however, these then trended down
and the patient's liver function tests and synthetic function
via measurement of INR improved throughout his course.

4. Cardiac:  The patient's original echocardiogram showed a
normal ejection fraction of greater than 55%, however, the
echocardiogram was repeated approximately two weeks later,
which showed an ejection fraction of 20-25%.  There was
global LV and RV hypokinesis consistent with a cardiomyopathy
and not indicating ischemic event.  Troponins were monitored
throughout the [**Hospital 228**] hospital course, and the highest
that they noted was less than 0.2 in the setting of acute
renal failure.  At the time of discharge from the MICU, the
patient continued to be worked up with a P-MIBI to rule out
ischemic event, however, the decline in cardiac function may
be more consistent with a cardiomyopathy possibly due a
systemic inflammatory response type syndrome in the setting
of amiodarone toxicity and pneumonia.

Patient was followed by Cardiology throughout his hospital
course.

5. Atrial fibrillation:  The patient did show signs of atrial
fibrillation, however, the patient was in a rhythm paced at
the ventricular level.  Patient was maintained on Coumadin in
his original hospital course, this was discontinued, and
patient was started on Heparin due to the procedure line
placement needs.  Patient was maintained on low dose Heparin
with a PTT goal of 60-80 for his atrial fibrillation.

6. Anemia:  Patient with baseline hematocrit on admission.
Patient required infrequent transfusions to maintain his
hematocrit above 28.  There was no evidence of acute bleed
during his hospital course.

7. Hyperthyroidism:  Patient had a low TSH and high T4.  This
may represent a sick euthyroid syndrome in the setting of an
ICU syndrome, however, this may also be consistent with
amiodarone toxicity to the thyroid.  This continues to be
under investigation at this time.

8. FEN:  Patient's fluid status was unclear at the time of
admission, although he did have lower extremity edema and
evidence of congestive heart failure on examination.  On the
18th, the Swan-Ganz catheter was placed for better fluid
monitoring.  The patient had a high pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure of 24 at the time of catheter placement.  The
patient was dialyzed on successive days to remove fluid.
Although initial dialysis attempts at removing 3 liters at a
