Admission Date:  [**2157-12-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2157-12-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2131-9-16**]       Sex:  M

Service:  NEUROSURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 27-year-old
male who complained of left frontal headache described as the
worst in his life.  He concurrently experienced pins and
needles sensation in the right face, arm and leg.  He
complained of nausea but no vomiting.  He had no diplopia, no
photophobia.

The patient had a similar episode about one month prior.  He
was evaluated at an outside hospital in [**Location 8398**]and
found to have a subarachnoid hemorrhage by LP.  Head CT was
negative.  Angiogram was done and revealed a left cerebral
aneurysm.

The patient was counseled to have the aneurysm clipped but
refused.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Seizure disorder.  Peptic ulcer
disease.  Asthma.  Hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Triamcinolone MDI 2 puffs b.i.d.,
Albuterol MDI p.r.n., Depakote 250 mg p.o. t.i.d., Dilantin
300 mg p.o. q.h.s., Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d., Propanolol 40
mg p.o. b.i.d., Rabeprazole 20 mg q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  The patient was awake, alert
and oriented to name and place.  He needed prompting for
date.  HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements intact, but right eye was deviated
laterally at rest.  Right visual acuity 20/800, left eye
visual acuity 20/20.  Positive diplopia on forward and right
gaze.  Smile symmetric.  Tongue midline.  Neurological:
Naming intact.  He answers slowly.  Positive right pronator
drift.  Sensation intact on the left.  Decreased pinprick on
the right face, arm and leg.  Strength was 4+ in all major
muscle groups on the right and 5+ on the left.  Rapid finger
tapping slowed on the right.

LABORATORY DATA:  Head CT at the outside hospital was within
normal limits, no bleed, no hydrocephalus.

Labs within normal limits.  Dilantin level less than 0.6.
Depakote level 3.

Electrocardiogram within normal limits.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted on [**12-19**] to
Intensive Care Unit for continuous neuro-assessment and
observation.  LP was performed.  Tube four showed no white
cells and no red cells.  Tube three was with a protein of 34,
glucose 53.  Culture is pending.

Cerebral angiogram was done on [**12-19**] and showed no
cerebral aneurysm.

The patient was transferred to the floor on postadmission day
#1.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Same as preadmission medications.

DISPOSITION:  Neurologically stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharged to correctional custodial care.

FOLLOW-UP:  With primary care physician as needed.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 125**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 342**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 343**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info **]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2157-12-21**]  09:20
T:  [**2157-12-21**]  09:28
JOB#:  [**Job Number 46204**]
