Admission Date:  [**2103-1-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2103-2-12**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:

Service:  GOLD SURGERY

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Gallstone pancreatitis and
choledocholithiasis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 80-year-old female
with intermittent episodes of midabdominal cramping, pain,
and discomfort radiating to the back in the setting of
cholelithiasis based on an right upper quadrant ultrasound in
[**2099**], who presented with 18 hours of midabdominal pain,
severe, radiating to the deep back with 4 out of 5 rents
criteria with gallstone pancreatitis and choledocholithiasis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.  Hypercholesterolemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Status post appendectomy.
Hysterectomy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco.  Occasional ethanol use.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin 81 q.d., Zocor 80 q.d.,
Nifedipine 60 q.d.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No fevers, chills, or vomiting.  No
jaundice.  No colored stools.  No dark urine.  The patient
has had [**12-26**] loose bowel movements.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature 96.2??????, heart
rate 81, blood pressure 143/94, respirations 18, oxygen
saturation 90% on room air.  General:  The patient was a
pleasant, elderly female in no acute distress.  HEENT:
Scleral anicteric.  Oropharynx clear.  Chest:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Machine
rub/murmur.  Abdomen:  Severe midabdominal tenderness with
guarding.  No rebound, right greater than left.  Extremities:
Within normal limits.  Rectal:  Guaiac negative.  No masses.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 22.5, hematocrit 37.6, platelet
count 252; CHEM7 139/4.2, 103/25, 22/1.1, 123.

Electrocardiogram revealed lateral ST depressions.

CT of the abdomen revealed severely calcified aorta but with
patent vessels, edematous pancreatic head,
cholelithiasis/choledocholithiasis.

IMPRESSION:  This was an 80-year-old female with gallstone
pancreatitis and choledocholithiasis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the SICU for
aggressive intravenous hydration, MRCP, and rule out for
myocardial infarction.

The patient's ERCP performed on the same day revealed a
single nonbleeding periampular diverticula with a large
opening found in the rim of the major papilla.  Mini-regular
stones ranging from size 4-7 mm causing partial obstruction
causing partial obstruction were seen in the common bile
duct.

There was some poststricture dilatation.  Sphincterotomy was
performed at 12 o'clock positioning of the sphincterotome
over it .................. guidewire, and multiple
.................. successfully using a 2 mm balloon.




                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8275**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 8276**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2103-2-12**]  14:47
T:  [**2103-2-12**]  15:17
JOB#:  [**Job Number 111382**]
