Admission Date:  [**2113-8-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2113-9-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2060-2-5**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
rheumatic heart disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Splenectomy, tonsillectomy, hernia
repair, status post AVR (mechanical valve).

OUTPATIENT MEDICATION:  Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d., Amiodarone
400 mg q.d., aspirin 325 mg q.d., Colace 100 mg b.i.d.,
Percocet one to two tabs p.r.n., Coumadin q. h.s.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54 year old
gentleman status post AVR on [**2113-8-16**], for severe AI due
to rheumatic heart disease.  His AVR was complicated by
postop atrial fibrillation and he was started on Amiodarone.
Since his discharge, he had intermittent chills, questionable
fever, a complaint of increased fatigue, light-headedness
especially when rising from a sitting position, neck and
throat pain two days prior to his presentation.  He denies
chest pain but complains of episode of shortness of breath
which occurred at sleep and resolved spontaneously.  No other
complaints.

Upon further questioning, it was discovered that the patient
was taking 2-3 tablets of Coumadin a day.  The patient was
given very explicit instructions on how to take those on
discharge.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.8, heart rate 80, blood
pressure 107/63 sitting, 93/55 standing, respiratory rate 15,
O2 sat 96% on room air.  CV:  Regular rate and rhythm, loud
metallic S2, no murmurs.  Respiratory:  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended.
Extremities:  Warm, well profuse, strong pulses.

LABS:  White blood cell count 13.9, hematocrit 24.4,
platelets 902, sodium 135, potassium 5.5, chloride 102,
bicarbonate 24, BUN 21, creatinine 1.3, blood glucose 110.
PT 38.1, INR 10.1.  AST 73, ALT 52, alkaline phosphatase 73,
total bilirubin 0.4.

Chest x-ray showed small left sided pleural effusion.
Electrocardiogram regular rate and rhythm, rate of 75, normal
axis, no acute ST or T-wave changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to Medicine
Service, was transfused a unit of red blood cells due to his
fall in hematocrit since discharge.  The patient underwent
TEE which found him to have a large pericardial effusion.
The patient's INR was reversed with Vitamin K.  He was
started on heparin for anticoagulation.

Hospital day number two the patient received a couple of
fluid boluses to keep his systolic blood pressure above 90.
The patient continues complaining of chest discomfort.
Hospital day number three the patient continued doing well
and continued on supportive measures.  A few boluses of
intravenous fluid to support his blood pressure on hospital
day number five because the patient's effusion was decreased
as seen by echocardiogram.  It was decided to proceed with
cardio thoracentesis.  The patient was taken to
Catheterization Laboratory on [**2113-9-4**].  However, a very
small amount of fluid was drained from his pericardial space.
On hospital day number six, the patient remained stable.  His
echocardiogram was repeated which showed large pericardial
effusion with evidence of RV collapse.  It was felt that
pericardial window would be the course of action for this
patient.  The patient was taken to the Operating Room on
[**2113-9-6**], where substernal pericardial window and fluid
drainage was performed.  1300 cc of fluid was drained.  The
patient did well on operation, however, he had a complete
heart block post extubation.  The patient was transferred to
ICU and spontaneously converted into normal sinus rhythm 30
minutes after his event.  Postoperative day number one, the
patient remained afebrile, blood pressure 100/60, heart rate
96 and sinus rhythm.  His INR was 1.7.  The patient was
transferred to floor in stable condition.

Postoperative day two, the patient is stable, mediastinal
chest tube showed minimal serosanguinous drainage.  The pin
was removed without complications.  The patient remained
afebrile, vital signs stable.  The patient ambulates. There
are no active issues at this time.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient is discharged home.  The
patient will be given explicit instructions on his Coumadin
regimen.  The patient should take one Coumadin pill a day and
follow his INR levels very closely with his primary care
physician.  [**Name10 (NameIs) **] patient should not have beta blockers because
of his recent history of complete heart block, hypertension
since his heart rate and blood pressure were under control.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Percocet one to two tabs q.4-6h.
p.r.n., Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Coumadin 1 mg p.o. q.d.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Aortic insufficiency status post AVR,
pericardial effusion plus tamponade status post pericardial
window, rheumatic heart disease.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 1112**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3113**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info 44053**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2113-9-8**]  18:59
T:  [**2113-9-8**]  19:59
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
