Admission Date:  [**2145-4-4**]     Discharge Date:  [**2145-4-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2067-3-30**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Neurology

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 78-year-old
right-handed male with a history of left frontal ischemic
infarction in [**2142-10-11**], for which he was given t-PA
complicated by hemorrhagic transformation.  His right-sided
weakness and word-finding difficulties after that stroke have
since resolved.

He then had another left corona radiata stroke in [**2144-10-10**] with similar right-sided weakness and word-finding
difficulties that also resolved.  He had a carotid ultrasound
with less than 50% occlusion.  Transesophageal echocardiogram
showed significant plaque in the aortic arch.  He was
continued on aspirin and Plavix.  His most recent note from
his Neurology appointment in [**Month (only) 956**] notes complete
resolution of his right hemiparesis.

He was in his usual state of health until the day of
admission at 8:30 p.m.   He took a brief nap after dinner.
He woke up and was "confused" and was having right-sided
weakness, so he was immediately brought to the Emergency
Department within 45 minutes of symptom onset.

He is currently not able answer review of systems questions
due to his aphasia.  His wife said he was fine until before
his nap.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Left frontal stroke in [**2142-10-11**], status post t-PA
with hemorrhagic transformation.
2.  Left corona radiata infarction in [**2144-6-9**].
3.  Lung cancer, status post resection.
4.  Rising prostate-specific antigen; likely benign prostatic
hypertrophy.
5.  Hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, prednisone, Plavix,
Pravachol, folate, and Altace.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  Remote tobacco and
wine before the event, retired.  Wife also aphasic from
stroke.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  His blood pressure was
175/60, his heart rate was 88, his respiratory rate was 23,
and his oxygen saturation was 96% on room air.  In general,
the patient was awake and alert with regard to examiner.
Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed the
mucous membranes were moist.  The oropharynx was clear.  The
neck was supple.  There were no carotid bruits.  The lungs
were clear.  Heart was regular in rate and rhythm.  The
abdomen was benign.  Extremities were without edema.  On
neurologic examination, mental status revealed the patient
was awake and alert.  Sticking out tongue, says "aah."  Tried
to cooperate with examination by moving arms and legs when
the examiner touches them.  He said a few words and wrote
phrases, but he was unable to follow any verbal commands.  He
was unable to state his name when asked, just shrugged his
shoulders and regards examiner.  Cranial nerve testing
revealed the pupils were 3.5 mm, round, and briskly reactive
to light.  The optic disks were sharp bilaterally down to
right field cut.  The extraocular muscles were fully intact.
There was a mild right facial droop.  The palate moved
symmetrically.  Shoulder shrug [**4-14**].  The tongue was midline.
Motor revealed a right pronator drift, but at least 4-/5 in
the right upper and lower extremities.  Not cooperative with
formal strength testing.  Strength seemed full on the left.
Tone was slightly increased on the right.  No adventitious
movements.  On sensation testing, withdrew all four
extremities.  Deep tendon reflexes were brisk in all four
extremities, but slightly less brisk on the right.  Brisk
extensor/plantar responses on the left.  Immediate
extensor/plantar responses on the right.  Unable to assess
coordination and gait.   As the hospital course went on, he
became very somnolent and unresponsive to voice or noxious
stimuli.  He did move the left side spontaneously; however,
would no longer move the right side as the hospital course
went on.   Although, his head computed tomography remained
unchanged.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  White blood
cell count was 10.1, his hematocrit was 30.3, and his
platelets were 150.  His INR was 0.9.  His reticulocyte count
was 2.6.  Chemistry-7 was normal.  Alanine-aminotransferase
was 16, aspartate aminotransferase was 18, his alkaline
phosphatase was 48, and his total bilirubin was 0.5.  Iron
was 14.  Total iron-binding capacity was 159.  B12 was 295.
Folate was greater than 20.  Haptoglobin was 207.  Ferritin
was 307.  Transferrin was 122.  The patient's respiratory
culture on [**4-9**] was contaminated.  On [**4-8**], it showed
sparse growth of oropharyngeal flora.  Blood cultures on
[**4-9**] were negative.  [**4-7**] were negative.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A head computed tomography
revealed a left temporal lobe hemorrhage, subarachnoid, and
intraventricular hemorrhage, persistent compression of the
left lateral ventricle, and mild dilation of the right
lateral ventricle.  There was some right-sided subarachnoid
hemorrhage as well.  No tonsillar herniation.

Repeat head computed tomographies remained stable.

Electroencephalogram showed no epileptiform features, but
there was a disorganized background and superimposed bursts
of theta with anterior voltage predominance, and additionally
focal discharging from the left ventral and temporal regions.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  On [**2145-4-5**], the patient
had global aphasia with no verbal output.  He did not follow
commands.  The right side was slightly weaker than the left,
but he moved all extremities.

A nasogastric tube was placed.  The patient was started on
glycerin to decrease his intracranial pressure and edema.  He
was also placed a labetalol drip to control his blood
pressure.  A chest x-ray showed emphysematous changes and
right pleural thickening.  No infiltrate of congestive heart
failure.

On [**4-6**], at 1:00 a.m., there was a change in mental
status.  His white blood cell count was 14.2.  A head
computed tomography showed no changes.  Arterial blood gas
revealed hypercapnia with a CO2 of 58.  The patient was
hypertonic and stiff in the upper extremities.  A chest x-ray
was unchanged.  The patient was loaded with Dilantin at that
time and intubated.  There was a pan-culture in the morning.
The Dilantin was discontinued as there had been no actual
seizures.  Electroencephalogram was pending.  The patient was
started on tube feeds and was changed from the glycerin to
mannitol for intracranial pressure control.

On [**4-7**], the patient remained stable.  He did spike a
temperature, and cultures were followed.  There was an anemia
workup pending, and a repeat hematocrit which remained stable
at around 30.   His electroencephalogram at that time showed
abnormal slowing but some irritability.  The following day,
the patient was loaded on Dilantin again due to irritability
on the electroencephalogram.  Vancomycin was started for
enterococcus that was found in the urine culture, and the
patient was continued on mannitol.

The patient remained fairly unresponsive, only very
occasionally moving the left side but not the right side any
longer, and he was not opening his eyes to any type of voice
or noxious stimuli.

There was a family discussion, at which time it was felt that
the patient's wishes would be to be made comfortable.  On [**2145-4-11**], the patient expired.






                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 5930**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 6125**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 10034**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2145-4-12**]  20:19
T:  [**2145-4-14**]  13:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 12118**]
