Admission Date:  [**2167-2-9**]       Discharge Date: [**2167-2-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2100-12-17**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Location (un) 259**]

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 66-year-old
gentleman with a history of end-stage liver disease, hepatic
encephalopathy and ascites who presented to the Emergency
Room after two days of lower extremity weakness and
confusion.  The patient was recently hospitalized at the
[**Hospital1 18**] from [**2167-1-1**] through [**2167-1-2**] for
treatment of hepatic encephalopathy and workup of a lung
mass.  The patient was discharged on [**2167-1-2**] with an
increased dose of spironolactone 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. and on
discharge his sodium was 138.  His weight was 134 pounds.  In
the clinic on [**2167-1-26**], his weight was noted to be
127 pounds.  He was found to have a sodium of 106 and was
admitted for further workup.  The patient denied recent
fevers, chills, night sweats, nausea, vomiting, abdominal
pain, diarrhea, dysuria.  He sights problems with ongoing
back pain and new onset leg weakness.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  End-stage liver disease secondary to alcohol-induced
cirrhosis diagnosed with alcoholic hepatitis at the age of 37
in [**2166-5-25**].  He had an episode of hepatic
encephalopathy, history of ascites and scrotal edema.  Liver
mass on CT noticed in [**2166-11-24**] with new masses on
MRI.
2.  Asthma.
3.  Herpes zoster in [**2157**].
4.  Diet-controlled diabetes.
5.  Status post cholecystectomy.
6.  Status post appendectomy.
7.  History of colonic polyps with last colonoscopy in
[**2166-11-24**].

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1.  Spironolactone.
2.  Ultram.
3.  Lactulose.
4.  Flovent.
5.  Combivent.
6.  Albuterol.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Negative for liver disease.  Positive for
glaucoma.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No alcohol for the past 25 years, prior to
that about a quart per week.  Tobacco:  He is a former
smoker.  He is a retired business manager for [**Company 14006**] and
is married with two children.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  Temperature
97.8, blood pressure 95/68, heart rate 78, respiratory rate
16, saturations 98% on room air.  General:  He is a
chronically ill appearing male in no acute distress.  HEENT:
Normocephalic, atraumatic.  The pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  The extraocular muscles were intact.
Moist mucous membranes.  The oropharynx was clear with
positive scleral icterus.  Neck:  No JVD.  Cardiovascular:
Normal S1, S2, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Regular rate
and rhythm.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen:  Protuberant with central midline scar and
tympanitic.  Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.
Neurologic:  No asterixis.  The patient was awake, alert, and
oriented times three.  The examination is otherwise nonfocal.
Skin:  Numerous spider nevi.  Multiple ecchymoses.  Poor skin
turgor.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  On admission, white count 11.6,
hematocrit 43.5, platelets 157,000.  Sodium 106, potassium
5.4, chloride 81, bicarbonate 16, BUN 22, creatinine 0.9,
glucose 127.  INR 1.6, ALT 76, AST 73, alkaline phosphatase
341, total bilirubin 5.4, total protein 6.3.  Ammonia 76.
Amylase 64, lipase 41.

Chest x-ray showed question of a retrocardiac density,
spiculated nodular opacification in the left upper lobe and a
flattened diaphragms consistent with COPD.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 66-year-old gentleman with
end-stage liver disease secondary to alcoholic-induced
cirrhosis and history of hepatic encephalopathy and ascites
who presented initially with lower extremity weakness,
confusion, and hypernatremia.  Initially, the patient was
admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for further monitoring
with severe hypernatremia.  The patient was hydrated with
normal saline overnight and sodium continued to slowly
improve and was otherwise stable.  The patient was then
transferred out to the floor.

1.  END-STAGE LIVER DISEASE:  Secondary to alcoholic
hepatitis for which he has had disease for about 30 years.
He presented with a bilirubin of 5.4, elevated ALT, AST, and
alkaline phosphatase.  The patient had an ultrasound of his
right upper quadrant eventually to assess for ascites and his
flow.  Ultrasound did have evidence of perihepatic ascites
and in light of the patient's lethargy and confusion, plans
were made for a diagnostic paracentesis.  This was done on
[**2167-2-10**] without complications and laboratories
returned later that evening with a white count in the fluid
of greater than 20,000, red blood cells 4,800, with 78%
polys.  He had an SAAG of 1.8 and this was consistent with
portal hypertension with superimposed infection.

The patient was then started on ceftriaxone but on the
morning of the results was found to be less responsive and
hypotensive.  The patient was hydrated with fluid boluses and
pressures remained persistently in the 70s to 80s even after
2 liters.  The patient was groaning to pain and touch to
palpation of his abdomen but otherwise poorly responsive at
that time.  We were unable to get IV access in the patient
and a right internal jugular central line was placed and
laboratories were sent.  Further workup was started.

The MICU Team was eventually called to evaluate the patient
and the patient had a blood gas during this time also which
showed a pH of 7.34, PC02 14, P02 73, lactate 5.3.  As the
patient continued to remain unresponsive, plans were made to
transfer the patient into the Intensive Care Unit.  In terms
of supporting his blood pressure, the patient was started on
a dopamine drip on the floor and eventually it transitioned
to a Levophed drip in the unit.  He had a repeat gas done on
the floor as the patient's oxygen requirement increased.
Eventually it was on 100% nonrebreather.  Prior to that, a
gas on 10 liters face mask showed a pH of 7.23, PC02 17, P02
89 with a lactate of 6.0.  The patient was transitioned to
100% nonrebreather eventually as he continued to desaturate
on face mask.  He was with an elevated lactate and concern
for sepsis.  Plans were made to consider a stat abdominal CT.
Plans were to stabilize the patient prior to transferring to
the CT scanner.

Eventually, the patient was intubated by Anesthesia for
airway protection and for increasing acidemia and hypoxia.
The patient was also initially started on ceftriaxone in the
morning but coverage was broadened to conclude Zosyn and
vancomycin for which was also started upon arrival in the
Intensive Care Unit.  His blood pressure remained in the 80s
to 60s range and he started to receive boluses of albumin in
attempts to help his fluid remain intravascularly.

Over the course of the morning with fluids, the patient's
abdomen continued to increase in distention.  Repeat
laboratories returned with INR from 1.6 to 2.9, albumin 2.2,
total bilirubin of 2.7, AST/ALT of 40 and 64, white count of
11.8.  No growth on preliminary Gram's stain of the fluid
culture.  However, with increasing lactate, hypotension, and
white count concern for sepsis.  The patient was again
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit on broad coverage
antibiotics including vancomycin, Zosyn, and Flagyl
empirically.

Surgery evaluation was also called at the time to rule out
perforation.  KUB did not show any free air and the patient
had a NG tube placed for suctioning and a rectal tube placed
for decompression.  The patient also had an arterial line
placed in his left radial artery for better blood pressure
monitoring.  In the MICU the patient was switched over to
Levophed with thoughts of adding Vasopressin if required
additional pressors.  Again, the patient was continued on
respiratory support via the ventilator.  His blood gases were
serially followed.  His lactate remained elevated secondary
to his sepsis.

Eventually, he went down for a CT of his abdomen with
gastrografin which revealed dilated loops of colon and small
bowel with colonic wall thickening and no evidence of
microperforation.  We continued to follow his examinations
via KUBs and his dilated loops of bowel seemed to resolve and
no evidence of free air throughout his stay.  The patient was
continued to be see