Admission Date:  [**2134-11-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2134-12-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2064-1-10**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CT [**Last Name (un) **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 69 year old,
Spanish speaking gentleman with a known history of coronary
artery disease, peripheral vascular disease and diabetes
mellitus type 2, who presented with approximately five to six
weeks of dizziness and multiple falls, the last one about a
week prior to admission.  He also reported episodes of facial
numbness and tingling and slurred speech at that time.  He
did have some blurry vision and diplopia several weeks ago.
His dizziness did not appear to be vertiginous, but was
postural.  He had stable, chronic, paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea and orthopnea without any chest pain with his falls
and dizziness, but he did have some chronic angina.  He used
three to four nitro sublingually per day.  He was admitted to
the cardiology medical service on [**11-19**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  CAD with three vessel disease.
Peripheral vascular disease status post axillo-bifemoral
bypass graft and left below knee amputation.  Noninsulin
dependent diabetes mellitus.  History of MRSA.  CHF.  Chronic
renal insufficiency.  Pulmonary hypertension.

LABORATORY DATA:  The patient was worked up for the
cardiology service.  Labs on admission were as follows.
White count 7.6, hematocrit 35.5, platelet count 264,000.  PT
12.3, PTT 23.0, INR 1.0.  Admission CK 92, MB fraction 95,
troponin 0.04.  Sodium 138, K 5.6, chloride 107, bicarb 22,
BUN 58, creatinine 2.7, blood sugar 123.  Anion gap 9.
Second CK was 90 with second troponin 0.03.  Chest x-ray
showed old granuloma with no effusion, no infiltrate, no
edema.  EKG showed sinus brady with T wave inversions in
leads 1 and L, no ST depressions, also showed the presence of
an old inferior myocardial infarction.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was assessed also for
bradycardia at that time.  He was admitted to the C-Med
service.  Meds on admission were amitriptyline, aspirin,
Avandia, captopril, glyburide, Imdur, Lasix, Lipitor,
Lopressor, triamcinolone, Nitrostat p.r.n.  He had a 40 pack
year history of tobacco, quit 20 years ago.  No history of
alcohol.  He was followed on the cardiology service.  His
dizziness was worked up.  He was seen by the neurology
service for workup of dizziness.  They noted and assessed his
multiple risk factors for stroke.  He had presented with
postural dizziness and unsteadiness.  They recommended
getting scans and giving him gentle hydration and to get
physical therapy involved for gait evaluation.

The patient was also seen by case management.  He was
followed every day by cardiology.  He did start to have some
episodes of what could be described as chest pain.  His
electrolytes were corrected as he was followed every day.
Lopressor was adjusted several times and then stopped when
the patient had bradycardia on the morning of the 4th.  He
was also followed by his medical attending with plans to
consult cardiology again.  On the 4th he also had more
shortness of breath with jaw pain in the morning.  EKG was
done and then repeated after sublingual nitroglycerin, which
relieved his chest pain.  He was still complaining of
dizziness at that time whenever he sat up or was out of bed
and felt like he was going to pass out or lose consciousness
"as if a black shade came down."  When he didn't move, he was
okay.  His blood pressure also rose into the 170s.  Nitrates
were increased.

The patient had a cardiology consult on the 5th.  Given his
history, his symptoms, his bradycardia and his EKG evidence
of an old inferior MI, they recommended getting cardiac
catheterization done, but the issue was his creatinine at
that time which was still 2.5 and 2.6.  On [**11-23**] again he
had another episode of chest pain.  They were going to
perform a Persantine MIBI on the 6th in the afternoon, but it
was not performed, given the fact that he had ST segment
depressions in inferior leads and in V4 to V6, so the plan
was to then just proceed with cardiac cath.  His pain was
relieved with nitroglycerin.

The patient's neuro followup exam on the 6th said that the
MRI showed right cerebellar encephalomalacia in the PICA
distribution.  Please read their final report dictated by
cardiology and radiology.  He was seen again by cardiology on
the 7th.  His creatinine had risen slightly to 2.8 with white
count still normal at 9.  His EKG from the 6th did show ST
depressions in V6 through V6 and 1 and aVL as well as some
LVH.  Decision was to start a nitroglycerin drip, give him
Mucomyst and the appropriate meds for premedication, to use a
special dye to help protect his kidneys during cardiac
catheterization.  On the 7th he underwent cardiac
catheterization that showed LVEDP of 19, normal left main, 80
percent LAD lesion of diagonal one bifurcation, ostial 80
percent circumflex lesion with a taper to a 90 percent lesion
at the bifurcation with OM1 and OM2 and inferior lesions
distally in OM2.  The right was the dominant vessel which was
occluded ostially and supplied by collaterals.

The patient was referred to cardiac surgery.  He was seen by
Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] who noted the history of left and right
femoral bypass grafts prior to left BKA.  Meds at that time
were as follows: amitriptyline 25 mg p.o. q.d., aspirin 325
mg p.o. q.d., Avandia 4 mg p.o. q.d., captopril 50 mg p.o.
t.i.d, glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d., Imdur 60 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix
80 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d., Lopressor 100 mg
p.o. b.i.d.  Triamcinolone and Nitrostat were also given,
doses are not listed.  The patient had no known allergies.
Echo on [**11-22**] showed LV ejection fraction of 35 percent
with 1 to 2+ MR.  [**Name13 (STitle) 227**] his severe three vessel disease and
his depressed LV function, he was referred for cardiac
surgery.  Prior to operations his labs were white count 8.7,
hematocrit 29.4, platelet count 275,000.  INR 2.0, PT 17.3,
PTT greater than 150 on heparin.  Prior to heparin, previous
INR was 1.0 to 1.2.  Sodium 136, K 5.0, chloride 110, CO2 19,
BUN 37, creatinine 2.5, blood sugar 138.  Amylase 137.  LFTs
were normal.  UA was negative.  Chest x-ray showed no acute
cardiopulmonary disease.

Neurology evaluation, in summary, said there was no acute
stroke and it was likely vascular in origin.  On exam lungs
were clear bilaterally.  Heart was regular rate and rhythm,
no murmur was noted.  Abdomen was softly distended, but
nontender with positive bowel sounds.  Extremities were warm
with no edema, noting, of course, the left BKA.  On the 8th
he had carotid ultrasound done which showed no stenosis on
the left internal carotid, but 40 to 60 percent right
internal carotid stenosis.  MRA of the neck prior to
operation showed mild atherosclerotic disease at the right
proximal ICA without high grade stenosis.  Bilateral
vertebral arteries and left ICA demonstrated normal flow.
MRA of the head showed left vertebral artery ended in the
PICA.  He was seen by the stroke team for evaluation, but it
was clear the patient was going to have to have bypass
surgery at that time, given his severe coronary artery
disease and his recurrent symptoms, necessitating
nitroglycerin drip and heparin.  The last creatinine prior to
surgery was 2.7.  Coags were repeated.

On [**11-26**] the patient underwent coronary artery bypass
grafting times three with LIMA to the LAD, vein graft to the
OM and vein graft to the PDA.  The patient was transferred to
the cardiothoracic ICU on a milrinone drip of 0.5 mcg per kg
per minute and a Levophed drip of 0.02 mcg per kg per minute.
In the first 12 hours the patient was unresponsive despite
the fact that propofol had been off for 12 hours with no
signs of waking.  On exam his pupils were very sluggish on
the evening prior and nonresponsive in the evening.  The
physicians caring for the patient were aware.  There was no
response to painful stimuli, turning, suctioning, etc.
Please refer to the nursing exam notes.  On postoperative day
one the patient remained on a Levophed drip at 0.04 and a
milrinone drip at 0.25 and a neo drip at 1.25 as well as