Admission Date:  [**2138-9-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2138-10-22**]


Service:  Neurology

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 79-year-old
female with multiple medical problems including old stroke in
[**2135**] (with residual visual field cut in the right eye),
hypertension, history of mitral regurgitation,
hypercholesterolemia, and depression who presented status
post two witnessed generalized tonic-clonic seizures.

Per the patient's family, the patient complained of right arm
numbness and left arm weakness, headache, and right visual
field deficit, followed by the onset of a generalized
tonic-clonic seizure at home.

The patient was originally seen at an outside hospital where
she had a witnessed second generalized tonic-clonic seizure.
The patient was intubated for airway protection.  She was
given Ativan and was loaded with Dilantin.  The patient was
then transferred to [**Hospital1 69**].
After intubation the patient was given further sedation, and
the rest of the Dilantin was infused.  The patient had an
episode of transient hypotension with systolic blood
pressures of 70, and she was started on a dopamine drip,
after which her blood pressure normalized and she was able to
be weaned off the dopamine.  The patient arrived at [**Hospital1 1444**] with systolic blood pressures
in the 170s.

A head computed tomography at the outside hospital showed no
evidence of hemorrhage, or mass effect, or hydrocephalus.  A
chest x-ray at the outside hospital was read as having
evidence of pneumonia.  The patient was also found to have a
urinary tract infection, and she was given ceftriaxone at the
outside hospital.

The patient's arterial blood gas on admission to [**Hospital1 346**] revealed a pH of 143, PCO2 of 38,
and a PO2 of 242.  In the Emergency Department, the patient
was found to have an INR of 4.9.  The patient was transferred
to the Neurology Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Hypertension.
 2.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 3.  Depression.
 4.  History of mitral regurgitation.
 5.  Status post appendectomy.
 6.  Degenerative joint disease.
 7.  Status post bilateral total knee replacement.
 8.  Seasonal allergies.
 9.  History of a remote stroke with residual upper visual
field cut in the right eye.
10.  History of retroperitoneal bleed.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Outpatient medications included)
1.  Lipitor 20 mg by mouth once per day.
2.  Potassium chloride 10 mEq by mouth once per day.
3.  Zoloft 100 mg by mouth once per day.
4.  Vioxx 12.5 mg by mouth once per day
5.  Coumadin (dose unknown); status post bilateral total knee
replacement.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient's temperature was 96.9 degrees
Fahrenheit, her blood pressure was 173/70, her heart rate was
67, and her oxygen saturation was 100% on synchronized
intermittent mandatory ventilation with an FIO2 of 100%, a
tidal volume of 700, rate of 14, positive end-expiratory
pressure of 5, and a pressure support of 5.  In general, the
patient was intubated.  She was lying in bed with her eyes
closed.  She opened eyes to voice.  She did not follow
commands.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed no scleral icterus or injection.  The mucous
membranes were moist.  The neck was supple.  Heart was
regular in rate and rhythm.  Normal first heart sounds and
second heart sounds.  A [**4-10**] holosystolic murmur radiating to
the axilla.  Lung examination revealed coarse breath sounds
bilaterally.  No crackles or rales.  The abdomen was soft and
nondistended.  No organomegaly.  Extremity examination
revealed mild nonpitting edema bilaterally.  There were
venous stasis changes in the bilateral lower extremities.
Positive surgical scars on the knees bilaterally.
Neurologic/mental status examination revealed the patient
opened eyes to voice and to sternal rub.  She did not follow
most of the commands; however, she would wiggle her toes on
command but only in the right lower extremity.  Cranial nerve
examination revealed pinpoint pupils which were 1.3 mm but
reactive and symmetric.  No eye deviation.  Positive corneal
reflexes.  Motor revealed brisk withdrawal to noxious stimuli
in the lower extremities bilaterally.  Positive withdrawal in
the bilateral upper extremities briskly.  Reflexes were brisk
and symmetric.  The toes were upgoing bilaterally.  Sensation
examination revealed coordination and gait were unable to be
assessed.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
on admission revealed her sodium was 137, potassium was 4.5,
chloride was 104, bicarbonate was 21, blood urea nitrogen was
30, creatinine was 0.9, and her blood glucose was 183.
Creatine kinase was 97.  Troponin was less than 0.01.  Her
white blood cell count was 9.3, her hematocrit was 40.1, and
her platelets were 212.  Her INR was 3.2 at the outside
hospital.  Negative toxicology screen.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray revealed no focal
opacities.  Mild pulmonary edema.

Magnetic resonance imaging diffusion-weighted imaging
revealed a small lesion approximately 10 mm in length in the
occipital lobe above the lateral ventricles.  No acute bleed.
Suggestive of ischemic stroke in a right frontal
distribution.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

 1.  STATUS POST CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT ISSUES:  The
patient was transferred to the Neurology Intensive Care Unit
and was extubated the day following her admission.  However,
due to respiratory failure the patient was reintubated and
remained intubated for a prolonged period of time (until
[**2138-10-12**]).

The patient's diffusion-weighted imaging was suggestive of an
ischemic stroke; however, the patient presented with a
supratherapeutic INR of 4.9.  Therefore, the workup included
a transesophageal echocardiogram which showed no evidence of
endocarditis, mild aortic regurgitation and mitral
regurgitation, and complex atheroma of the ascending aorta.

The patient also had an extensive workup for vasculitis and
connective tissue disease.  The patient's vasculitis workup
was negative.  Her connective tissue disease workup was
negative for Leukos anticoagulant, normal homocystine,
negative double-stranded DNA, normal compliment levels,
negative anticardiolipin, normal rheumatoid factor, mildly
positive antinuclear antibody (with a titer of 1:160), and
erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 35.

The patient underwent a cerebral angiogram which showed no
evidence of vasculitis; however, it did show three left
fusiform aneurysms of ICA and PCOM with the largest being 12
mm of the left ICA as well as fibromuscular dysplasia over
the temporal arteries.

As far as future stroke prophylaxis, the patient was treated
with aspirin and Pravastatin.  No anticoagulation was
continued in the setting of intracerebral aneurysm.

 2.  STATUS POST TWO GENERALIZED TONIC-CLONIC SEIZURES: The
patient was started on Keppra.  The patient did not
experience further seizure activity.  It was thought to be
seizures in the context of ischemic stroke.  The patient was
to continue on Keppra and to be seen by an outpatient
neurologist.

 3.  MENTAL STATUS CHANGE ISSUES:  After being extubated on
[**2138-10-12**]; and upon transfer to the general nursing
floor; the patient continued having waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**] mental
status changes which were much improved at the end of her
hospitalization.

It was thought that the mental status changes was
multifactorial; including status post cerebrovascular
accident, as well as a toxic metabolic etiology, status post
prolonged Medical Intensive Care Unit stay complicated by
ventilator-associated pneumonia and a urinary tract
infection.  The patient had an electroencephalogram which
showed a slowing consistent with a toxic metabolic etiology,
and no seizure activity.

The patient's course was discussed extensively with the
family.  The patient likely has underlying dementia in
addition to a generalized confusional state in the hospital.
The patient would benefit from a behavioral neurologic
evaluation when all other conditions are stabilized.

 4.  LEFT ICA ANEURYSM ISSUES:  The patient was seen by
inpatient Neurosurgery tea