Admission Date:  [**2127-11-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2127-12-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2097-5-14**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 30 year old male with
no previous past medical history who was in his usual state
of health until the day before [**Holiday 1451**] when he developed
left-sided posterior pleuritic chest pain.  He went to an
outside hospital Emergency Department where he was found to
have muscle strain and was discharged with prn narcotics.
The pain continued to worsen and was now also being
associated with a cough and eventual production of greenish
sputum.  The patient was seen again at the same hospital
where he was diagnosed with pneumonia and prescribed
Erythromycin.  He was also admitted for this condition but
discharged on the following day to home where he continued to
have pleuritic chest pain, fever, chills, sweats, cough and
green sputum.  He was seen by his primary care physician
three days following that and he changed his antibiotics to
Augmentin and gave him one dose of intramuscular Ceftriaxone.
At his primary care physician's office chest x-ray showed
left lower lobe pneumonia.  The patient got a little better
over the next week with Ibuprofen, antibiotics and
expectorants.  However, over the last few days the patient
got significantly worse and presented to the [**Hospital6 1760**] Emergency Department.  He has
noted worsening shortness of breath, tachypnea, continuing
fever, and chills.  He denies any diarrhea, abdominal pain,
sick contacts, recent plane or car trips, or history of deep
vein thromboses.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Unremarkable.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None except recent antibiotics.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his wife in [**Name (NI) 47191**], smokes one
pack per day.  He rarely consumes alcohol and no illicit drug
use, no history of unprotected sex, no blood transfusions.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery disease in
mother.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On initial examination temperature is
102.4, blood pressure 106/74, heartrate 100, sating 96% on 3
liters, respiratory rate 30.  In general this is an alert and
awake male in mild respiratory distress.  Pupils were equal
and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Sclera
anicteric.  Oropharynx erythematous but otherwise clear.
Neck is supple with no lymphadenopathy and no jugulovenous
distension.  Respiratory, decreased breathsounds at the left
base with tactile fremitus.  Dullness to percussion one-third
the way up on the left.  Cardiovascular, tachycardiac, S1 and
S2, with no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen was nontender,
nondistended with normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities
revealed 2+ pulses with no edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  Initial laboratory studies revealed a white
count of 12.5 with 3 bands, hematocrit 38, platelets 723,
unremarkable chem-7.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Pulmonary - The patient was admitted
for what originally appeared to be a community acquired
pneumonia.  He was found to have what is believed to be a
parapneumonic effusion and on the following day was taken to
the Interventional Pulmonology Suite for a diagnostic
thoracocentesis.  However, during the thoracocentesis a large
amount of pus was drained.  A total of 250 cc of pus was
evacuated.  The patient's saturations on nasal cannula
following the procedure worsened significantly over night.
This consisted of the presence of a left-sided chest tube
which drained 1.2 liters of frank pus.  The patient's
oxygenation worsened furthermore with oxygen saturations less
than 94 on 100% rebreather.  The patient was transferred to
the MICU for observation where he soon thereafter experienced
significant worsening and respiratory failure and was found
to be in hypoxic respiratory failure and was intubated.  On
the following day he was taken to the Operating Room where
Cardiothoracic Surgery performed full drainage of his
left-sided diffusion which now drained 2.2 liters of pus.  He
had four chest tubes placed which continued to drain copious
amounts of pus for the next two weeks.  Following the
procedure, the patient's pulmonary status remained somewhat
compromised and he remained on AC ventilatory mode for over
one week.  A little after one week of intubation he slowly
started to improve requiring less positive end-expiratory
pressure and less FIO2.  He was successfully transferred to
pressure support ventilation and eight days post intubation
was extubated.  Following extubation he was tachypneic and
       but was able to maintain good oxygenation.  Arterial
blood gases drawn at that time showed both good ventilation
and oxygenation, the only limiting factor being his extreme
agitation toward impulse extubation.  His chest tubes
continued to drain copious amounts of pus and this issue was
discussed with Cardiothoracic Surgery who felt that this is
quite common following drainage of such large amounts of
empyema.  The patient is expected to have the chest tubes
placed for several weeks and they will continue to drain pus.

2.  Infectious diseases - The patient remained continuously
febrile during the first two weeks of the hospital stay.
This was believed to be resolved with a large amount of
empyema surrounding his left lung.  He had multiple blood
cultures, sputum cultures, and urine cultures which always
remained negative.  The only positive culture was from the
pleural aspirate which grew five different species, those
were Peptostreptococcus, Veionella, gram negative rods,
Staphylococcus epidermidis and bacteroides.  He was started
on a broad coverage of Vancomycin, Zosyn and Levofloxacin
which was subsequently tailored to a coverage of Vancomycin
and Zosyn alone.  His fever slowly decreased and after about
two weeks his temperature was in the 98 to 100 range.  There
was never a suspicion of any other possible source of
infection.  Two chest computerized tomography scans were
painful in the procedure which showed a mild decrease in the
loculated pleural effusion and no decrease in the overall
volume of the pleural effusion in his left pleural cavity.

3.  Cardiovascular - The patient remained relatively stable
from the cardiovascular standpoint.  He was initially total
body overloaded but that subsequently diuresed nicely with a
little bit of Lasix.  He is currently also diuresing without
intervention from the team.

4.  Endocrine - It appears quite likely the patient has
undiagnosed diabetes mellitus.  On a continuous basis his
fasting blood glucose is above 120 to 130.  Hemoglobin 1Ac
was 6.0.  It is quite possible that this undiagnosed diabetes
might be the only risk factor for the profound amount of
empyema and respiratory compromise he had after what had
appeared to have been an community acquired pneumonia.

5.  Gastrointestinal - No abnormalities from a
gastrointestinal standpoint, tolerating feeds well and taking
good p.o. post extubation.

6.  Renal - He remains relatively stable from a renal
standpoint.  No evidence of acute renal failure.  He
maintained good urine output at all times.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Fair.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  Discharged to a regular medical
floor.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Deferred to his primary care
physician.



                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 968**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 5094**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2127-12-7**]  12:49
T:  [**2127-12-7**]  16:05
JOB#:  [**Job Number 47192**]
