Admission Date:  [**2156-1-14**]     Discharge Date:  [**2156-1-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2078-9-28**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77 year old
male with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
coronary artery bypass graft in 05/98, left internal mammary
artery-D1, saphenous vein graft to left circumflex, saphenous
vein graft to right coronary artery, and bovine aortic valve
replacement, noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus,
hyperlipidemia, peripheral vascular disease, who presents to
an outside hospital complaining of three week history of
substernal chest pain with minimal exertion, now increasing
at minimal exertion or at rest, increasing in frequency and
severity, requiring more frequent use of sublingual
Nitroglycerin as well as associated shortness of breath.  He
reported only intermittent stable angina since coronary
artery bypass graft in [**2150**], until now.  Just prior to
presentation at outside hospital, he took four to five
sublingual Nitroglycerin without significant relief of the
chest pain, and his wife drove him to the Emergency
Department.  He was found to have non ST elevation myocardial
infarction and was treated with Aspirin, beta blocker,
Nitroglycerin, Heparin, Plavix, but no IIB-IIIA.  Apparently
he then underwent a Persantine MIBI stress test showing fixed
defect in the septum and inferior and posterior wall and
moderately reduced left ventricular function.  He was then
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
emergent cardiac catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery
bypass graft as above in [**2150**], left internal mammary artery
to D1, saphenous vein graft to left circumflex, saphenous
vein graft to right coronary artery.
2.  Status post bovine aortic valve replacement in [**2150**].
3.  Peripheral vascular disease.
4.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy, status post transurethral
resection of prostate.
5.  Noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
6.  Hyperlipidemia.
7.  Aortic stenosis/mitral regurgitation.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:
1.  Zocor 40 mg once daily.
2.  Atenolol 25 mg once daily.
3.  Glyburide 5 mg once daily.
4.  Aspirin.
5.  Nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n.
6.  Colace twice a day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He had a remote history of tobacco.  He quit
actually twenty years ago.  He admits to occasional alcohol.
No intravenous drug abuse.  He is a cartoonist.  He lives
with his wife.

Cardiac catheterization [**2156-1-14**], right heart catheterization
shows right atrial mean of 10, right ventricular pressure of
56/11, pulmonary artery pressure of 56/25, wedge mean 22.
Cardiac index is 2.7, SVR is 1192, PVR 289.  Left heart
catheterization shows three vessel disease and a right
dominant system, proximal right coronary artery with 90%
lesion, mid right coronary artery with diffuse disease.  His
left main has 100% lesion, proximal left anterior descending
100% lesion and his proximal circumflex has 100% lesion.
Meanwhile his saphenous vein graft one and two show 100%
lesions.  The patient subsequently underwent PCI to his
proximal right coronary artery lesion with two Hepacoat
stents.  He was unable to undergo PCI stent to mid right
coronary artery lesion and underwent percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty with ultimately 30 to 40%
residual stenosis.  Post PCI for proximal right coronary
artery revealed TIMI-3 flow.

Transthoracic echocardiogram on [**2156-1-16**], showed ejection
fraction of 10 to 15%, normal left atrium and right atrium,
left ventricular wall thickness is normal with normal cavity
size with severe global left ventricular hypokinesis.  Right
ventricular cavity thickness and chamber size are within
normal limits but right ventricle does show depressed
systolic function.  Aortic valve prosthesis present without
aortic insufficiency.  Severe 3+ mitral regurgitation.  No
pericardial effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular - Coronary artery disease - The patient
transferred from outside hospital, status post non ST
elevation myocardial infarction.  Cardiac catheterization
reveals native vessel disease with two out of three grafts
down.  He underwent intervention to his proximal and mid
right coronary artery lesion with stenting of proximal right
coronary artery and percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty of mid right coronary artery lesion with 30 to
40% residual stenosis.  Post cardiac catheterization in CCU,
the patient underwent abbreviated course of Integrilin
secondary to episode of hemoptysis.  He was continued on
Aspirin and Plavix.  He was also continued on his statin. He
was also started on low dose beta blockade and ace inhibitor.
These final two medications had to be adjusted slowly as the
patient had marginal blood pressure and was felt to be in
moderate to severe congestive heart failure during his
hospital course.  His CKs trended until they peaked at 450,
and the patient denied having chest pain during the remainder
of his hospital course.

Pump Function - Transthoracic echocardiogram on hospital day
three showed severely depressed left ventricular function
with ejection fraction of 10 to 15% and with severe mitral
regurgitation.  His right heart catheterization also revealed
elevated filling pressures although reasonably normal cardiac
index. Post cardiac catheterization and CCU, the patient
initially underwent aggressive diuresis for his elevated
filling pressures.  He was negative approximately two to
three liters in his first day.  The patient subsequently
became hypotensive with the addition of ace inhibitor and
beta blockade.  His urine output began to decrease and his
cardiac index was decreased consistent with cardiogenic
shock.  Subsequently, he briefly required Dobutamine.  The
patient's pulmonary artery pressures and cardiac index were
followed continuously and the patient did show improved
cardiac function with the addition of low dose Dobutamine,
low dose ace inhibition and gentle diuresis.  By hospital day
four, his pulmonary artery diastolic pressures had decreased.
His cardiac index had improved and the patient had pulmonary
artery catheter subsequently discontinued.  By this time, the
patient was off Dobutamine.  He was continued on low dose ace
inhibition, continued on Lasix and also had Digoxin added for
additional inotropic support.  During the remainder of the
[**Hospital 228**] hospital course onto the floor, the patient was
continued to be gently diuresed 500 to 1000cc per day.  He
will be discharged on Lasix 20 mg once daily and will be
reassessed in one to two weeks by his cardiologist, Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name (STitle) **].  Secondary to marginal blood pressure and
concern about a possible posterior cerebrovascular accident,
he had lower reserve for beta blockade and ace inhibition and
he was discharged on Coreg 1.56 mg twice a day and Lisinopril
2.5 mg once daily for his congestive heart failure.  He was
also continued on Digoxin throughout his course with his end
dose being 125 mcg once daily.

Hemodynamics - As mentioned above, the patient had marginal
blood pressure throughout his hospital course. He actually
became hypotensive early in the hospital course in the
setting of aggressive diuresis and combined beta blockade and
ace inhibition and briefly requiring inotropic support with
Dobutamine for cardiogenic shock.  His blood pressure did
improve slightly during his hospital course.  Later in his
hospital course, his marginal blood pressure prevented the
team from aggressively titrating his beta blockade and ace
inhibitor especially in the setting of a possible posterior
circulation cerebrovascular accident.   He did end up being
discharged on beta blockade and ace inhibitor as above.

Rhythm - The patient was initially tachycardic early in his
hospital course felt secondary to congestive heart failure.
His electrocardiogram does show an intraventricular
conduction delay.  Given his coronary artery disease and his
severe congestive heart failure, the team had considered
possibly having the patient evaluated for a biventricular
pacer and ICD.  This further evaluatio