Admission Date:  [**2167-11-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2167-11-25**]


Service:  MICU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is an 80-year-old
male with a past medical history significant for diabetes
Type 2, coronary artery disease, transient ischemic attacks,
chronic renal insufficiency, atrial fibrillation, who was
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] from his
acute renal failure and seizure x 4.  The patient had been
recently admitted to [**Hospital1 69**] in
[**2167-10-3**] secondary to a fall which resulted in
development of a subdural hematoma.  His course was
complicated by a difficult bedside tracheostomy with
significant bleeding and a pneumothorax.  The patient also
experienced an episode of asystole at this time, as well as
rapid atrial fibrillation was treated with Diltiazem and
Digoxin, and he was discharged to [**Hospital1 **] in [**Month (only) **] with
a tracheostomy in place.

At the rehabilitation hospital, the patient was noted to have
gram-negative rods in urine and sputum, and was treated with
ciprofloxacin and ceftazidime for a full course.  He was also
noticed to have an increased TSH, and was started on
Synthroid.  On the first of [**Month (only) 359**], the patient was noted to
have an episode of tonic/clonic seizures.  He was therefore
admitted back to the hospital.  He was started on Dilantin,
with a goal of a free Dilantin level between 1 and 1.5, to be
maintained over six months.  An electroencephalogram was
checked at that time, which was within normal limits.  The
patient was also noted to have a left lower lobe infiltrate,
and was started on a course of ceftazidime.  The patient's
pulmonary function improved significantly over the course of
the hospital stay, and at the time of discharge, he was
tolerating tracheostomy mask trials for approximately two to
three hours each afternoon.  The patient's atrial
fibrillation was well controlled on Diltiazem as well as
Digoxin.  The patient had a PICC line placed for antibiotic
therapy, and was discharged back to rehabilitation on the [**2167-11-9**].

At the rehabilitation hospital, the patient continued to
improve significantly.  According to the patient's family and
doctor, the patient's mental status continued to improve to
the point where he was able to have short conversations with
a Passey-Muir valve, and appeared to be both alert and
oriented.  The patient was even to the point of making
decisions with his family regarding his medical treatment.

However, on [**11-17**], the patient experienced a temperature
spike to 102 degrees, and was found to be hypotensive.  This
was associated in a decrease in mental status, and the
patient was thought to be septic, possibly secondary to a
PICC line infection.  Over the course of the day, the patient
had one episode of bright red blood per rectum, as well as a
small drop in his hematocrit, for which he was transfused two
units of packed red blood cells.  He was also noted to have a
bump in his creatinine from his baseline of 1.8 to 2.9,
associated with decreased urinary output.  Sputum cultures
from that day grew Acinetobacter, and the patient was started
on a combination of ciprofloxacin and ceftazidime antibiotic
therapy.  In addition, stool cultures from that day were
positive for C. difficile toxin, and the patient was started
on intravenous Flagyl as well as intravenous vancomycin.

Over the course of the next two days, the patient continued
to decompensate.  His creatinine rose steadily, and the
patient developed acute renal failure, which was thought
secondary to acute tubular necrosis secondary to
hypoperfusion during his septic episode.  There was no
response in his urinary output to lasix or intravenous
hydration.  The patient was found to have yeast growing in
his urine, and was started on amphotericin B bladder lavages
twice a day.  The patient's pulmonary function also continued
to worsen, and an ultrasound of the chest wall revealed a
small left pleural effusion.  Multiple discussions were held
between the patient's doctor and his health care proxy, his
daughter, [**Name (NI) 34929**] [**Name (NI) 34930**], who made her wishes known that she
felt it was very important that the patient remain at
[**Hospital1 **] and not have to be taken back to the hospital.
However, on the evening prior to admission, the patient had
four episodes of tonic/clonic seizures and ceased producing
any urine.  At that point, the daughter felt like it was
important that the patient receive further medical care, and
he was transferred from [**Hospital3 **] to [**Hospital1 1444**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   Diabetes mellitus Type 2, coronary
artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass graft,
status post multiple transient ischemic attacks, status post
carotid endarterectomy, atrial fibrillation, pacemaker
placement, status post recent subdural hematoma in [**2167-11-2**], recurrent pneumonias, chronic renal insufficiency.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:   Digoxin 0.125 mg by mouth once
daily, Protonix 40 mg by mouth once daily, Epogen 5000 units
subcutaneously Monday, Wednesday and Friday, vitamin K 10 mg
by mouth once daily, Synthroid 25 mcg by mouth once daily,
Dilantin 100 mg by mouth three times a day, heparin
subcutaneously 5000 units twice a day, free water boluses 100
mg per nasogastric tube once daily, ciprofloxacin 200 mg
intravenously twice a day, ceftazidime 1 gram every 24 hours,
Flagyl 500 mg every eight hours, vancomycin 1 gram
intravenously once daily, amphotericin B bladder washings
twice a day.

ALLERGIES:   Penicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   The patient is currently a resident of
[**Hospital6 85**].  His primary care
physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 34931**].  His health care proxy is his
daughter, [**Name (NI) 34929**] [**Name (NI) 34930**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   General:  The patient is an elderly,
fair-appearing male, cachectic, unresponsive.  Vitals:
Afebrile, blood pressure 90s/60s, heart rate 98, respiratory
rate 26 to 28, oxygen saturation 98%.  Head, eyes, ears, nose
and throat:  Normocephalic, atraumatic, pupils equal, round
and reactive to light, mild scleral icterus, dry mucous
membranes.  Neck:  Supple, no lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular:  Heart rate irregularly irregular, normal S1
and S2, II/VI systolic ejection murmur heard at the left
sternal border, no jugular venous distention.  Lungs:
Diffuse rhonchi bilaterally, decreased breath sounds
bilaterally, crackles at bilateral bases.  Abdomen:  Positive
bowel sounds, soft, nontender, nondistended, no
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities:  Multiple ecchymoses over
all four extremities, 2+ pulses in upper extremities, 1+
pulses in lower extremities, no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.
Genitourinary:  The patient had a Foley in place, red
candidal rash over entire groin and sacral area, no sacral
ulcers or decubitus ulcers.  Neurological:  The patient was
unresponsive.  He was able to move all four extremities.
Reflexes 1+ in biceps, patellar, Achilles tendons.

LABORATORY DATA:   White blood cell count 11.1, hematocrit
30.0, platelets 378.  Sodium 133, potassium 4.3, chloride 97,
bicarbonate 23, BUN 88, creatinine 4.5, glucose 86.  ALT 18,
AST 46, alkaline phosphatase 422, LDH 227, total bilirubin
4.5, direct bilirubin 2.4, lipase 34, amylase 26, Dilantin
3.8, free Dilantin 1.7, albumin 2.3.  Calcium 8.1, magnesium
2.1, phosphate 4.4, vancomycin 24.6, Digoxin 1.5.
Reticulocyte count 1.6.  Urinalysis:  Moderate blood, nitrite
negative, 100 protein, 35 red blood cells, 16 white blood
cells, occasional bacteria.  Urine electrolytes:  Sodium 83,
creatinine 23, potassium 20, chloride 72, urea 242.  Head CT:
Slightly reduced size of left subdural hematoma, otherwise no
other intracranial acute pathology.  Chest x-ray:  Small lung
volumes, small left pleural effusion, small left lower lobe
consolidation which appears stable if not improved compared
to his chest x-ray at time of last discharge.  Pacemaker
wires in appropriate positions.  Right PICC line with tip in
the superior vena cava.  tracheostomy in place.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient is an 81-year-old gentleman
with a history of multiple past medical problems, who 