Admission Date:  [**2161-2-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2161-3-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2088-2-19**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery Service

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 73 year-old female
presented with complaint of increasing shortness of breath
and cough for approximately six months getting progressively
worse.  For the week prior to presentation the patient was
having significant cough with expectoration associated with
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and orthopnea.  The patient has
previously echocardiogram in [**2160-11-29**] which
demonstrates preserved left ventricular systolic function but
the presence of significant valvular gradient across the
prosthetic mitral valve which has a mean of approximately 17
mmHg and a calculated mitral valve area of 1 sq cm.  The
patient was transferred to the [**Hospital1 188**] on pressors, was stable hemodynamically and remained
afebrile with mass approximately 30 to 34 for presumed
thrombotic mitral valve.  Patient was admitted and patient
had progressive shortness of breath, was intubated for
respiratory distress initially, treated for cardiac shock,
then presumed septic shock.  Outside hospital echo showed a
VA of only 1 cm sq with gradient of 20 mmHg, PA line at the
outside hospital showed increasing RV, increasing PA,
increasing RVR and PCWP is 25 to 35.

ALLERGIES:  To penicillin, fiorinal.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  Vasopressin 0.1, levo 0.6, Versed on
transfer.

MEDICATION AS OUTPATIENT:  Toprol, lisinopril.

Patient had a TE in the Cardiac Care Unit on [**2-27**] that
showed dilated severely hypercontractile right ventricle,
small hyperdynamic left ventricular, peak pressure across the
MV of 50 to 64 mmHg with mean of greater than 40, severe TR.
The findings were consistent with acute thrombus.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Rheumatic mitral disease, status post
MVR mechanical valve, hypotension, prerenal azotemia, lower
GI bleed, short liver, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, QRS
respiratory failure with pulmonary edema and right
ventricular failure, status post Carbomedics mitral valve
replacement in [**2155**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 96.7, heart rate 140 to
200, blood pressure 120/60s.  Patient continued to be
intubated, coarse breath sounds on examination.  Patient has
1+ dorsalis pedis bilaterally that were felt.

On admission white blood cell count 11.3, hematocrit 34.7,
platelets 181, sodium 134, potassium chloride 106, bicarb 15,
BUN 32, creatinine 2.5, glucose 179.

Patient was admitted to the cardiology service.  Patient was
significant for having cardiogenic shock.  Patient received
TPA 10 mg bolus and 90 mg over 90 minutes.  On hospital day
two patient continued to be kept n.p.o., remained afebrile,
making good urine.  On hospital day three patient received
one unit of packed red blood cells for hematocrit of 27, was
started on Vancomycin-Levo-Flagyl for fever.  Patient was
apneic.  On hospital day number four patient had a neurology
consult to assess the prognosis from taking off propofol.
Patient had CT of the brain which was negative for bleed and
patient was still on propofol.  It was hard for neurology to
obtain an adequate examination.  On hospital day number five
she remained afebrile with stable vital signs except for the
blood pressure which was approximately 82/43.  Patient
continued to be monitored on hospital day number five.
Patient had low grade fever, had received a dose of lasix
which produced a great output and patient was preopped.  On
hospital day number six patient had temperature of 100.2,
otherwise was doing well.  On hospital day number six patient
was put on neo and decreased the Lasix drip.  On hospital day
number seven patient was continued on neo.  Patient continued
on pulmonary PS.  Patient had systolic blood pressure in the
80s.  Patient was started on Neo-Synephrine on the same day.
The infectious disease service was consulted.  They
recommended stopping the Vancomycin and Levofloxacin as the
clinical picture is consistent with drug fever.  On hospital
day number 7 general surgery was consulted for drop in
hematocrit from 31 to 22 and right rectus sheath hematoma was
found.  Patient was taken to the operating room and underwent
evacuation of rectal hematoma and control of eight ligations,
Interferon and Epo.

Patient was transferred Crystalloid one pack and FFP two.
Serial CBC was obtained.  Laboratory data showed no
organisms.  Patient was started on metoprolol.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  Fentanyl 100 q day, Versed 2 q day,
Lasix 10 per hour, Neo 1, Digoxin 0.0625, amiodarone 200 q
day.

On hospital day number nine the patient's medications were
changed to AC for agitation and patient had decrease in blood
pressure requiring second pressors.  Hematocrit was down to
18.7 from 22.8.  Patient was pancultured.  On hospital day
number 10 the patient had derm consult for rash.  The
assessment was that it was associated with drug.  On hospital
day number nine the patient was started on Nasalide and
started on that and Levophed for low blood pressure.  The
patient also had a TE which on the echo showed the anterior
disc of the mitral prosthesis was immobile, mild to moderate
valvular mitral regurgitation and moderate to severe
tricuspid regurgitation.  The patient grew out two bouts of
gram positive cocci, received one unit of packed red blood
cells.  Patient's white count was down to 11 from 17 with
bacteremia.  Patient was continued on antibiotics.  On
hospital day number 12 patient had right internal jugular
placed and patient's pressors were stopped and patient was
able to maintain good blood pressure.  On hospital day number
12 patient remained afebrile with stable vital signs.  On
hospital day number 12 the patient underwent cardiac
catheterization that showed selective coronary arteries were
without angiographic apparent flow demanding stenosis,
dysfunction of the mechanical prosthetic mitral valve and
immobile right stenosis, severe pulmonary artery hypertension
and moderate right ventricular diastolic dysfunction.  On
hospital day 13 patient had a low grade fever of 100.9, blood
pressure was 79/44, satting well.  White count was 9.2,
hematocrit 30.3, creatinine 0.7.  Patient was off her
pressors.  On hospital day 14 patient had been extubated and
patient had dental consult.  On hospital day 15 patient
remained afebrile with stable vital signs.  Patient's white
count was down to 6.8, hematocrit 31.5 and creatinine was
0.7.  On hospital day number 16 patient had negative head CT,
normal liver function tests, ammonia.  Patient was oriented
to person only and slightly confused and was very pleasant,
remaining afebrile with stable vital signs.  On hospital day
number 17 patient received lasix times two for goal 180
negative.  Patient was complaining of some hallucinations.
Patient was preopped and consented for surgery.  On hospital
day number 17 patient underwent re-do MVR with 27 mm Mosaic
Porcine valve for severe mitral regurgitation and status post
MVR in [**2155**].  Patient has been on O2 pressure, CVPR of 13,
PAD of 28, PA 41.  Normal sinus rhythm at 97, was on propofol
and nitroglycerine 0.7 when patient was transferred to CSRU.
On postoperative day number one the patient was weaned from
drips and continuously intubated with a low grade fever.
Otherwise was doing well.  White count of 11.2, hematocrit of
34.6, creatinine 0.7.  Patient was weaned to extubate and
removal of the chest tube.  On postoperative day number two
the patient was stopped on drips, temperature of 99.8 with
normal sinus, blood pressure 134/56, was satting well.
Patient's mediastinal chest tubes were removed and Lopressor
was increased and lasix was started.  On postop day number
three the patient remained afebrile with stable vital signs
in sinus taking adequate p.o. and making urine and white
count of 10.7, creatinine 0.7.  Patient had a chest x-ray and
was started on physical therapy and continued on metoprolol.
Patient's chest tube since midnight has been 500.  On postop
day number four patient remained afebrile with stable vital
signs in sinus rhythm with some PVCs, took in 696 p.o., took
out 1685, white count 9.6 and creatinine 0.7.  The patient