Admission Date:  [**2132-7-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2132-8-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2063-1-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 69-year-old woman,
with a history of coronary artery disease, status post recent
CABG on [**2132-5-30**], hypertension, and dyslipidemia, who
presented to [**Location **] Hospital on the morning of
admission with substernal chest pain and pressure, shortness
of breath, dyspnea on exertion, diaphoresis, nausea and
vomiting.  Her symptoms began the day before admission with
increasing shortness of breath and substernal chest pain
relieved by sublingual Nitroglycerin.  The pain continued to
bother the patient even while at rest.  She also reported
some dyspnea at rest.  She denies palpitations.  She was
given morphine and sublingual Nitroglycerin.  Her EKG showed
anterolateral T wave inversion, and she was transferred to
[**Hospital1 18**].  At the outside hospital, she had a troponin of 1.85.
In the Emergency Room, she was given heparin, Nitroglycerin,
Integrelin drip, and 5 mg IV morphine.

EXAM:  Vitals - afebrile, heart rate 89, blood pressure
139/80, respirations 20, satting 98% on 2 liters.  General -
alert and oriented, still with 3/10 chest pain in the ED.
HEENT - supple neck, pupils equal, round and reactive to
light.  Cardiovascular - regular rate and rhythm, no murmur,
rub or gallop, positive S4.  Lungs - crackles at bilateral
bases.  Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities
are without edema.  Neuro - alert and oriented.  Strength 5/5
bilaterally throughout.

LABORATORY:  White count 8.6, hematocrit 33.9, platelets 432,
INR 1.8, PT 16.7.  Chem-7 - sodium 141, potassium 3.8,
chloride 107, bicarb 23, BUN 21, creatinine 1.0, glucose 107,
CK 178.  EKG - normal sinus rhythm, normal axis, borderline
first degree heart block, new T wave inversion with ST
depression in V2 through V5, T wave inversion in V6.  Chest
x-ray - slight increase in pulmonary vasculature congestion,
fluid in right minor fissure, moderate right effusion,
partial right lower lobe collapse, mild failure, increased
right pleural effusion, ?left pleural effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE - 1) SYMMETRIC LEFT VENTRICULAR HYPERTROPHY,
NON-ST ELEVATION MI, MITRAL REGURG:  The patient was
initially admitted to the C-MED service with plan for
elective cath.  However, the patient had persistent pain
throughout the day and was emergently taken to cath.  The
patient was taken to the Cath Lab which demonstrated left
main and severe two-vessel coronary artery disease, left main
coronary artery showed 50% occlusion, left anterior
descending 95% proximal occlusion, and right circumflex
artery 80% ostial and 99% midocclusion.  The saphenous venous
graft to the LAD was diffusely atretic proximally with poor
flow.  OM to the RCA showed 80-90% ostial lesion.  The LAD,
LM and left circumflex were successfully stented.
Consideration was made to intervene on the severely diseased
saphenous venous graft, but the patient became unstable,
hypotensive, with chest pain, dyspnea, and marked anterior
ischemia.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed from
80-90% throughout the duration of the procedure.  CPR was
initiated and epinephrine drip started to augment blood
pressure.  She was started on Integrelin x 18 hours, aspirin
and Plavix, with the plan to return to the lab for
percutaneous intervention of the saphenous venous graft to
the RCA and kissing balloons of the LM.

CK peaked at 757.  Troponin peaked at 4.36.  The patient was
weaned off epinephrine with the addition of Levophed.
Dobutamine was also added for pressure control.

The patient returned to the Cath Lab on [**7-21**] for successful
stenting of the SVG to the RCA, kissing balloon PTCA of the
LAD and circumflex origin to the left main.  An
echocardiogram demonstrated systolic dysfunction with an
ejection fraction of 45-50%.  The patient was weaned off all
pressors by [**7-25**].  She was then started on metoprolol,
captopril, as well as continued on aspirin, Plavix and
statin.  The patient had resting tachycardia, but no other
events on telemetry.

2) PULMONARY:  The patient was started on Levofloxacin for
aspiration pneumonia and Zosyn later added for a total of a
14-day course.  The patient remained intubated on pressure
support through [**7-27**], when she was changed over to ARBV.
Blood cultures and sputum cultures were all without growth.
It was felt that a large component of her shortness of breath
and need for intubation was secondary to congestive heart
failure.  The patient was aggressively diuresed with good
result.

3) ANEMIA:  The patient had epistaxis associated with
intubation and resuscitation.  The nasopharynx was packed.
The patient's hematocrit remained stable throughout her
hospital course.  The patient continues to have mild
epistaxis.  There was some concern for neck swelling and
thought of hematoma.  However, the patient was seen by ENT
and this was felt to represent volume overload rather than
hematoma.

Please see addendum to this dictation for further hospital
course.




                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5214**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 51174**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2132-8-5**]  15:14
T:  [**2132-8-5**]  14:17
JOB#:  [**Job Number 51176**]
