Admission Date:  [**2152-2-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2152-2-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2096-5-21**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CARIOTHORAX SURGERY SERVICE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 55-year-old
male with a history of diabetes mellitus type 2, and positive
family history for coronary artery disease, who was seen in
his primary care physician's office on the day prior to
admission where he complained of shortness of breath and
dizziness for the last several months.  He also noted that
his exercise tolerance was decreased in the last several
months and he had dyspnea on exertion while climbing stairs.
His primary care physician ordered [**Name Initial (PRE) **] cardiac stress
echocardiogram where he exercised for five minutes and
stopped due to fatigue and dyspnea.

During his recovery, he had an intermittent vibrating feeling
in his chest and it was noted that while at peak exercise
rate to have electrocardiogram changes.  Echocardiogram
results showed a regional left ventricular systolic
dysfunction with hypokinesis of the distal half of septum and
akinesis of the basal inferior wall.  He was also noted on
echocardiogram to have mild to moderate aortic stenosis, mild
aortic regurgitation and trivial mitral regurgitation.

After the results of this test, the patient was then referred
to the Emergency Department where he was admitted symptom
free for further work-up.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Diabetes mellitus type 2.
2.  Foot ulcer.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Status post appendectomy.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives in [**Location **].  He is divorced.  He has
a remote tobacco use.  He quit 30 years ago and reportedly
did not smoke a lot.  Drinks alcohol socially on Friday's.

ALLERGIES:  He has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Enalapril 10 mg po q.d.
2.  Glyburide 10 mg po b.i.d.
3.  Metformin 1000 mg po b.i.d.
4.  >........<112.5 mg po b.i.d.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Shows a well-developed, well-nourished
male in no apparent distress.  His vital signs were stable
with a temperature of 97.  Heart rate of 80.  Blood pressure
142/80.  Respiratory rate 15.  Oxygen saturation 97% on room
air.  His head, eyes, ears, nose and throat shows pupils
equal, round and reactive to light, extraocular movements
intact.  Sclerae are anicteric.  His neck is supple.  He has
jugular venous distention to 7 cm.  His heart exam shows a
regular rate and rhythm with a 3/6 systolic ejection murmur
heard throughout and radiating to the carotids.  His lungs
are clear to auscultation bilaterally with no wheezes or
crackles.  His abdomen has positive bowel sounds, obese,
soft, nontender, nondistended.  His extremities show trace
lower extremity edema bilaterally.  He does have an old
healed ulcer in his anterior tibia and no varicosities.  His
pulses are 2+ throughout and his neurological exam shows him
to be alert and oriented times three, moving all extremities,
and following commands and is subsequently nonfocal.

LABS ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 7.4, hematocrit
45.3%, platelet count 260,000.  PT 12.5, INR 1.0, PTT 25.2,
sodium 137, potassium 4.2, chloride 99, CO2 28, BUN 14,
creatinine 1.6, blood glucose of 193.  Urinalysis was
negative and a chest x-ray showed no infiltrate or congestive
heart failure.  His electrocardiogram shows normal sinus
rhythm at 87 beats per minute with Q waves in leads III and
V1.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On [**2-4**], he underwent cardiac
catheterization which showed his left main to be short with
likely diffuse disease.  His left anterior descending with a
proximal 70% lesion, a mid 90% lesion, and a second diagonal
with a proximal 70% lesion and a distal lower pole 80% lesion
with a diffusely diseased high first diagonal.  His left
circumflex shows a 50% stenosis proximally and 70% stenosis
mid vessel and a 90% stenosis at the OM1.  The OM1 is totally
occluded.  The OM2 has a 70% stenosis with collaterals to the
distal right coronary artery.  His right coronary artery has
proximal occlusion with heavily calcified vessels.  His
aortic valve had a 22 mm mean gradient.  He was shown to have
1+ mitral regurgitation and an ejection fraction of about 30%
with anterolateral and posterior basal hypokinesis.

He was, therefore, recommended for possible coronary artery
bypass grafting.   Because of the potential necessity to
repair or replace the aortic valve, the patient did have a
Dental Consult.  It was recommended ideally that he have
tooth #28 and #30 extracted prior to surgery, but if they
were unable to delay, they recommended covering with
antibiotics.  It was also recommended that he undergo a
comprehensive dental exam and to have further evaluation of
tooth #28 and #30 and have #4 root fragment examined.

The remainder of his preoperative course was uneventful and
on [**2152-2-7**], he was taken to the Operating Room and
underwent aortic valve replacement with a #23
[**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor First Name 7624**] bioprosthetic valve and a coronary artery
bypass graft times three with a left internal mammary artery
to the left anterior descending artery, saphenous vein graft
to the posterior descending artery and a saphenous vein graft
to the OM.  The surgery was performed by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**],
with Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7625**], and [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], PA-C assistance.  The
surgery was performed under general tracheal anesthesia with
a cardiopulmonary bypass time of 173 minutes with a cross
clamp time of 146 minutes.

The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred
to the Intensive Care Unit with two atrial and two
ventricular pacing wires, mediastinal, and a left pleural
chest tube in normal sinus rhythm at 90 beats per minute on
on Levophed, milrinone and propofol drips.  The patient was
extubated on the morning of postoperative day number one
without complication.  He continued that morning to be on
milrinone, Levophed and insulin drips.  By late that day, he
was able to be weaned off the milrinone and to continue on
the Levophed drip.

By postoperative day number two, he was started on gentle
diuresis.  His chest tubes remained in for increased drainage
and he did remain in the Intensive Care Unit.  By
postoperative day number three, it was felt that he was
stable and ready to be transferred to the Surgical Floor.
His chest tubes were discontinued without incident.  Later
that afternoon, he was noted to have much more of a flat
affect and was noted to not be talking.  He had a Neurology
Consult where it was recommended that he undergo an MRI/MRA
of the head and also have his narcotics held and to receive a
carotid ultrasound and continue to try to keep his blood
pressure slightly elevated.

On postoperative day number three, it was noted that his
sugars continued to be elevated and [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] Consult was
obtained.  Their recommendations included starting him on NPH
insulin and a sliding scale, and continuing his glyburide.

In follow-up to his Neurological Consult, his MRI did show
multiple bilateral watershed infarcts that were suggestive of
an intraoperative stroke or perioperative stroke.  A carotid
ultrasound was done and it was noted to be a normal study
with no plaque seen.

On postoperative day number four, he was transfused two units
of packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of 25.3%.  He did
continue to progress slowly.

Following a further neurological follow-up, a Psychiatric
Consult was also recommended and their feeling was that he
was delirious due to low blood pressure and low oxygen
saturations and possibly the aphasia he had experienced was
related to the infarcts.  Their recommendations included
continuing his Effexor, checking TSH, and otherwise, he
should continue to slowly improve.  He did continue to
improve slightly.  His speech started to come back and
adjustments were made to his insulin dosing.  He continued to
work with Physical Therapy and was noted to have some more
improvement there too