Admission Date:  [**2198-8-22**]       Discharge Date: [**2198-8-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2122-10-7**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 75-year-old man
with a history of diabetes, coronary artery disease status
post myocardial infarction with right coronary artery PCI in
[**2192**], hypertension, elevated cholesterol, and tobacco use,
who had done well status post his right coronary artery stent
until the evening of admission, when he developed jaw pain,
diaphoresis, dyspnea, weakness.  His pain was similar to his
previous cardiac pain.  The patient was seen in the Emergency
Department and was found to have electrocardiogram findings
of ST elevations in I, L and V6, as well as deep T wave
inversions inferiorly.  He became hypotensive after two
sublingual nitroglycerin, and transiently bradycardic.  He
was therefore referred for a cardiac catheterization.

In the catheterization laboratory, he was found to have an
left anterior descending with mild disease but a high
diagonal with a 90% occlusion.  He also had a total occlusion
of his right coronary artery and left circumflex, with
collateralization.  The diagonal was intervened upon and
stented.  He was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit
post-procedure for monitoring.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, noninsulin dependent
diabetes, hypothyroidism, hiatal hernia,
hypercholesterolemia, coronary artery disease status post
myocardial infarction in [**2192**] with percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty of his right coronary artery, history of
guaiac positive stools after receiving aspirin, depression,
anxiety.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lopressor 50 mg twice a day,
Lipitor 20 mg once daily, Vasotec 10 mg twice a day, Norvasc
5 mg once daily, Levoxyl 75 mg once daily, Prilosec, Avandia,
Glucotrol, Prozac 20 mg once daily, Xanax .5 mg four times a
day as needed.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   Vitals on admission:  Blood pressure
139/93, pulse 71, temperature 96.8, oxygen saturation 90% on
7 liters, respiratory rate 16.  General:  Alert and oriented
x 3, resting comfortably, elderly male in no acute distress.
Neck:  He had jugular venous distention to the ear lying at
20 degrees, no lymphadenopathy, no thyromegaly.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat:  Pupils equal, round and reactive,
extraocular movements intact, mucous membranes moist.  His
oropharynx was clear.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation
anteriorly, with occasional crackles at the bases.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate, single S1 and physiologically
split S1, with no murmurs, gallops or rubs.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended, positive active bowel sounds.
Groin:  Sheaths were in the left groin.  There was no sign of
a hematoma or bleeding.  Lower extremities:  Cool
bilaterally, but Dopplerable pulses present.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 10.2, hemoglobin 14,
hematocrit 40.1, platelets 281.  Differential:  0% bands, 11%
monos, 4.8% basos.  PT 13.4, PTT 33.3, INR 1.3.  Glucose 175,
BUN 34, creatinine 1.7, sodium 137, potassium 4.1, chloride
100, bicarbonate 28.  CK 106 with an MB of 8 and a troponin
of 3.6.  The patient had a chest x-ray that showed moderate
cardiomegaly with interstitial edema, however, an element of
underlying interstitial lung disease could not be excluded
without prior studies for comparison.  Electrocardiogram
showed normal sinus rhythm with normal intervals, normal
axis, ST elevations in I, AVL, V6.  Post-PCI showed normal
sinus rhythm, normal intervals, normal axis, and mild ST
elevations in V4 and V6 with resolution of the prior ST
elevations.  Catheterization results revealed three vessel
coronary disease, elevated left-sided filling pressures,
lateral wall acute ST elevation myocardial infarction with
revascularization of the diagonal branch with good results.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular:
a.  Coronary artery disease:  The patient was successfully
stented at D1.  He had a total occlusion of the right
coronary artery and a subtotal occlusion of the left
circumflex.  The patient started on Integrilin for 18 hours,
started on Plavix 75 mg for a 30 day course.  He was given
aspirin 325 mg once daily.  The patient was started on
aspirin despite his past history of bleeding and would be
monitored carefully with guaiac testing of all stools.  The
patient was also started on 12.5 mg of Lopressor, which was
titrated up throughout his hospitalization, back to his
previous dose.  The patient was continued on Lipitor and also
restarted on his ACE inhibitor on hospital day two.  The
patient's CKs elevated significantly.  The patient's CKs
peaked at 3033 with an MB of 392 and an index of 12.9.  The
repeat CK showed a level of 2484 with an MB of 287 and an
index of 11.6.  No more CKs were checked after the patient
peaked.  Echocardiogram on [**2198-8-23**], showed a mildly
dilated left atrium with a left ventricular cavity that was
mildly dilated, showed moderate regional left ventricular
systolic dysfunction, resting regional wall motion
abnormalities including inferolateral akinesis/severe
hypokinesis. These segments were thinned.  Basal inferior
akinesis, mid-inferior hypokinesis, and mid to distal
inferior hypokinesis and mid to distal anteroseptal
hypokinesis/akinesis.  There was no definite left ventricular
thrombus identified.  The right ventricular chamber size and
free wall motion were normal.  The aortic root is moderately
dilated.  The aortic valve leaflets were mildly thickened,
and there was no aortic regurgitation seen.  The mitral valve
leaflets were mildly thickened.  There is moderate pulmonary
artery systolic hypertension. There is a trivial physiologic
pericardial effusion compared to the prior report of
[**2193-1-10**].  Overall left ventricular systolic function is
probably worse.  Anteroseptal hypokinesis was not noted in
the earlier report.  Prior tape was not available for
comparison.  Estimated pulmonary artery systolic pressure is
now higher.  The patient's ejection fraction was estimated to
be 30 to 35%.  Anticoagulation was not pursued for left
ventricular thrombus prevention in light of the patient's
relatively productive ejection fraction.

The patient had five episodes of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia in the first 24 hours after his PCI.  The patient
was asymptomatic throughout each event, and had no episodes
of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia after the 48 hour
period post-PCI.  The patient was monitored on telemetry
throughout his hospitalization, and had no other arrhythmias
throughout the hospitalization.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient was hypoxic on admission and
required oxygen both before and after this catheterization.
He was diuresed aggressively and, despite improvement of his
lung examination and improvement radiographically on chest
x-rays, the patient remained hypoxic disproportionately to
his likely congestive heart failure.  It was thought, based
on both radiographic and physical examination findings, that
the patient may have an underlying interstitial lung disease
that has been previously unrecognized.  The patient has a 110
pack year history of smoking, which could explain his
potential lung disease and very well may have a hint of
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease/emphysema.  The patient
was weaned down from 7 liters of oxygen to 4 liters of oxygen
by [**2198-8-24**].  The patient occasionally complained of
shortness of breath but, for the most part, was symptom-free
with regard to his respiratory status.

3.  Renal/Urology:  The patient's creatinine was elevated to
1.7 when he was admitted prior to catheterization.  For this
reason, the patient was given two doses of Mucomyst after his
intervention.  Due to the large dye load, he was also briefly
hydrated, however, this hydration was stopped due to the
patient's hypoxia and pulmonary edema.  The patient's
creatinine initially decreased with large diuresis on
hospital day one.  Creatinine had dipped as low as 1.5,
however, it bumped back up to 2.2 by [**2198-8-24**].
Additionally, on [**2198-8-23**], the patient began complaining
of dysuria in the context of Foley catheterization.  When the
Foley was pulled, the patient was noted to 