Admission Date:  [**2147-1-14**]     Discharge Date:  [**2147-1-28**]


Service:  [**Hospital1 212**] MEDICINE

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old
male who was admitted with a history of orthostatic
hypotension, atrial fibrillation, on Amiodarone, history of
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair who presents with a two to
three day history of increasing shortness of breath along
with fatigue and tiredness.  The patient was found to have an
oxygen saturation of 74% on room air; however, able to speak
in full sentences and appearing comfortable, requiring high
amounts of oxygen on nonrebreather.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  PULMONARY:  The patient was found to be
hypoxic at the time of admission with saturations of 74% on
room air.  The patient had been on Amiodarone 200 mg p.o.
b.i.d. that was started in [**2146-10-21**] for paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation.  The patient was maintained on the same
dose and it was not decreased.

Pulmonary consultation was obtained and the etiology of
hypoxia was thought to be related secondary to Amiodarone
toxicity as CT scan of the chest revealed interstitial lung
disease as well as COPD and changes consistent with
asbestosis.

The patient was started on p.o. prednisone for treatment of
presumed Amiodarone toxicity.  The patient required
nonrebreather and nasal cannula to maintain oxygen
saturations greater than 90% throughout his hospital course.
The patient had an episode of oxygen desaturation likely
secondary to self-removal of nonrebreather overnight with
resultant oxygen saturations of approximately 36%.  The
patient required intubation and was transferred to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.

At this point, he was treated with high-dose IV steroids for
his Amiodarone toxicity as well as antibiotics for pneumonia
including levofloxacin, Flagyl.  The patient was eventually
extubated and was able to maintain saturations of greater
than 90% on a nonrebreather and nasal cannula.  He was then
placed on continuous pulse oximetry for monitoring of his
respiratory status.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Coronary artery disease-The patient had
an echocardiogram which revealed an EF of 30% and new focal
wall motion abnormalities that were concerning for a recent
ischemic event as potential etiology of his hypoxia.
However, his decreased ejection fraction was thought to be
noncoronary in nature given that at cardiac catheterization
the patient only had significant disease in the right
coronary artery with 95% ulcerated lesion.  The patient had a
stent placed to his RCA and was maintained on aspirin,
statin, and Plavix postprocedure.

During the hospital course, the patient's beta blocker was
discontinued and the patient was not able to be placed on an
ACE inhibitor secondary to worsening renal function.  The CHF
Team was consulted throughout the [**Hospital 228**] hospital course.
During his Medical Intensive Care Unit course, as he became
total body fluid overloaded, he was placed on nisiritide.
However, the patient did not respond well to the nisiritide
and did not have significant diuresis on this.

3.  HYPERNATREMIA:  The patient developed a sodium of 150
while in the Intensive Care Unit and was treated with free
water boluses of 250 cc via his NG tube every six hours.

4.  ACUTE RENAL FAILURE:  The patient had a rising creatinine
during his hospital course and it was difficult to maintain
his volume status given his total body overload, CHF, and
need to give fluid for hypernatremia.

5.  HEMATOLOGY:  The patient was with a decreasing platelet
count into the low 50s.  The patient was also found to have a
positive HIT antibody while in the Intensive Care Unit.
Heparin flushes and all heparin was then discontinued.

6.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient had multiple GI issues:
(1)  Bright red blood per rectum after the cardiac
catheterization in the setting of receiving Angiomax and
Plavix during the procedure.  The patient subsequently had a
stable hematocrit and no further episodes of bright red blood
per rectum.  The patient was followed by the GI Service and
was deemed to need colonoscopy once the medical course was
more stabilized.  The patient had a rectal bag placed while
he was in the Intensive Care Unit.  Clostridium difficile was
negative times one.

The patient also had a NG tube placed while her was in the
Intensive Care Unit and received tube feeds.  He was then
kept n.p.o. as he did not do well with his swallow study and
was deemed high aspiration risk.

7.  DISPOSITION:  The patient's code status was DNR/DNI.
This was discussed with both the patient and his family which
included his brother, [**Name (NI) **], and his sister.  The patient did
have a decline in overall status given multiple organ system
decline during the hospital course and was eventually made
CMO and placed on morphine as well as scopolamine patch and
other medications were discontinued.

The patient expired on [**2147-1-28**].




                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1197**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 231**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2147-1-30**]  10:29
T:  [**2147-2-1**]  21:33
JOB#:  [**Job Number 107210**]
