Admission Date:  [**2192-10-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2192-11-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2141-5-26**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Coronary Care Unit

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 51-year-old
gentleman with a past medical history significant for
hypertension and gout who presented from an outside hospital
with hypertension and right neck pain of unknown etiology.

As per outside hospital notes, and history from the patient's
girlfriend, the patient has been experiencing approximately
three weeks of progressive shortness of breath which is worse
with exertion and a nonproductive cough.  He was scheduled to
receive pulmonary function tests by his primary care
physician on the day of admission.  Instead, the patient
decided to go to the Emergency Department.

History is positive for diaphoresis, subjective chills,
palpitations, and dizziness.  There was no nausea or
vomiting.  The patient denies any recent history of chest
pain.  His last episode of chest pain was approximately one
year ago.  He has had neck pain off and on for approximately
three weeks, and it was severe one day prior to admission
with radiation to the right arm which prompted him to go to
the Emergency Department.

At the outside hospital, a computed tomography ruled out
pulmonary embolism and aortic dissection but was positive for
a fatty liver and possible gallbladder wall thickening
consistent with cholecystitis.  There were no
electrocardiogram changes suggestive of an acute myocardial
infarction.  The patient was given sublingual nitroglycerin,
Lopressor, and aspirin.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for further evaluation.  On arrival, the patient was
started the sepsis protocol.  He received approximately six
liters of intravenous fluid hydration, ampicillin, Flagyl,
and ceftriaxone.  The patient was noted to be apneic and
acidotic on arterial blood gas, and he was therefore
intubated.

An echocardiogram performed in the Emergency Department
showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of approximately
10% to 20% with moderate-to-severe mitral regurgitation and a
left ventricular thrombus.  The patient was transferred to
the Coronary Care Unit for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Gout.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Medications prior to admission
included)
1.  Verapamil.
2.  Allopurinol.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies a history of alcohol
abuse.  He states that he drinks socially on weekends; maybe
once per month.  He denies any smoking history.  The patient
is a retired firefighter for the military.  He currently
works as a court officer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Physical examination
on admission revealed vital signs with a temperature of 100.8
degrees Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 92, his blood pressure
was 88/53, with a mean arterial pressure of 64 on a propofol
drip following intubation.  The patient was saturating well
on synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation plus
pressure support of 700 X 14 with an FIO2 of 0.5.  Physical
examination was notable for distant heart sounds on
cardiovascular examination, but there were no murmurs, rubs,
or gallops.  The lung examination revealed the lungs were
clear to auscultation anteriorly and laterally.  The patient
had hypoactive bowel sounds.  The abdomen was otherwise soft
and nontender.  Extremity examination revealed his
extremities were cool at the hands and feet, but were warm
proximally.  There were no petechiae noted.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
were notable for an arterial blood gas which revealed a pH of
7.13, a PCO2 of 55, and a PO2 of 146 following intubation.
The patient's white blood cell count was 10.6, his hematocrit
was 53.2, and his platelets were 235.  His potassium was 6.5
and his creatinine was 1.7.  Liver function tests were all
within normal limits.  His creatine kinase was 183.  His
CK/MB was 5.  His troponin T was less than 0.01.  Urinalysis
was remarkable only for blood; possible from a traumatic
Foley.  His cortisol level was 22.  His C-reactive protein
was 0.83.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING: Electrocardiogram revealed a
sinus rhythm with Q wave in leads II, III, and aVF as well as
V1 through V4.

A chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly with possible early
failure.

An ultrasound revealed no cholelithiasis and a nondistended
gallbladder with wall edema.  There was no pericholecystic
fluid, and no evidence of acute cholecystitis.

A bedside echocardiogram revealed a left ventricular ejection
fraction of 10% to 20%, with akinesis of the anterior free
wall, anterior septum, and apex.  Otherwise, there was severe
hypokinesis.  There was also a large apical thrombus in the
left ventricle.  The clot was mural and not mobile.  The
patient also had 3+ mitral regurgitation.  There were no
pericardial effusions.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  The patient was admitted in
cardiogenic shock secondary to a depressed ejection fraction
and massive fluid resuscitation of six liters in the setting
of a presumed sepsis.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was intubated and
transferred to the Coronary Care Unit.  A Swan-Ganz catheter
was placed to assist with further management.  Initially, it
was not known whether the patient was in septic shock or
cardiogenic shock.  Upon admission to the Coronary Care Unit,
a Swan-Ganz catheter was placed.  The patient was found to
have a central venous pressure of 20, a pulmonary capillary
wedge pressure of 30, and a cardiac index of 1.25.

Therefore, the patient was treated for cardiogenic shock.  He
was started on dobutamine for pressor support which was
eventually weaned off.  The patient was also started on Lasix
and achieved good diuresis.  When the patient was weaned off
dobutamine, he was started on his blood pressure medications
including an ACE inhibitor and a beta blocker.

Cardiac enzymes were cycled.  Even though his creatine kinase
levels were elevated, the patient ruled out for a myocardial
infarction by negative a troponin and flat CK/MB.

The patient was also started on intravenous heparin for the
left ventricular thrombus.  The patient was placed on
telemetry.  He remained in a normal sinus rhythm for the
remainder of the hospitalization except for one episode of
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia; during which the
patient remained asymptomatic.

The patient quickly stabilized and was extubated.  He was
diuresed throughout the remainder of his hospitalization, and
at the time of discharge the patient appeared clinically
euvolemic on examination.

The patient was taken for a cardiac catheterization on
[**10-31**].  Catheterization showed no angiographic evidence
of coronary artery disease.  The left anterior descending
artery had mild disease proximally with moderate
calcification.  There were elevated right-sided and
left-sided filling pressures.  The cardiac index was 2.3
L/min/m2.

It was unknown at the time of discharge exactly what caused
the patient's cardiomyopathy leading to diastolic heart
failure.  Ferritin and total iron-binding capacity levels
were checked, and there was no evidence of hemochromatosis.
The patient does not have a history of alcohol abuse, and is
only a social drinker.  There was no family history of
lactogen storage disease.  There was no recent history of
flu-like symptoms.  The patient stated that he is usually
very warm, but there were no other symptoms of thyroid
disease.  A thyroid-stimulating hormone was sent prior to
discharge, and the results of which were not available at
this time.

The patient was also asked for a history of human
immunodeficiency virus risk factors, and he denied any
history of intravenous drug use.  The patient was scheduled
to follow up with Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] in the Heart Failure Clinic
following discharge.  He was also placed on Lovenox as a
transition to Coumadin for his left ventricular thrombus.

2.  PULMONARY ISSUES:  The patient was intubated in the
Emergency Department due to acidosis.  He was diuresed in the
Coronary Care Unit,