Admission Date: [**2177-7-4**]        Discharge Date: [**2177-7-16**]

Date of Birth:  [**2120-11-27**]        Sex:  F

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Extensive pelvic tumor and clot involving
the IVC and right atrium.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 56 year-old over the
last two to four weeks has noted progressive fatigue and "hay
fever" allergies. Twelve days ago she felt pressure at mid
chest that lasted three to four hours and she felt it was
more difficult to breath.  This did resolve.  On Monday her
breathing was more difficult.  She saw her physician who felt
maybe it was secondary to anxiety.  She had tests that
included liver function tests reported as abnormal.  She went
to her primary care physician regarding the abnormal liver
function tests findings and he felt maybe it was secondary to
gallstones.  Ultrasound was obtained on [**7-4**], which raised
the question of clot. The patient had a CT of the abdomen,
which revealed a pelvic mass with clot versus tumor, which
extended into the right atrium.  She also noted additional
symptoms of "queasiness" in the bowel times one week.  This
was felt from mild regurgitation, but no actual [**Month/Year (2) **] emesis
or diarrhea.  The patient has been taking Tylenol for her
sinus and knee pain.  One year ago she was noted to have
fibroids by ultrasound inconclusive though. She went to
[**Location (un) 47**] and had an MRI and was told that it was negative
at that time.  The patient is now admitted for further care
and evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Nasal polyps.

Asthma.

Pneumonia in childhood.

Bronchitis as a child.

Multiple seasonal allergies.

Sinusitis.

Hypertension.

Nasal septal surgery.

Status post dilatation and curettage.

Menopause at the age of 40.

HABITS:  She is a pack per day plus smoker.

ALLERGIES:  Aspirin causes anaphylaxis.  Penicillin causes
anaphylaxis.  Lorabid reaction unknown.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Tampramine.
2. Tylenol.
3. Vitamins.
4. Intravenous heparin.


SOCIAL HISTORY:  She was born in [**Location (un) **].  She came to the
states in [**2158**].  She works as an accountant.  She denies
alcohol use.  No pets in the home.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Positive for breast cancer mother at 51 and
grandfather cerebrovascular accident.

REVIEW OF SYMPTOMS:  Significant for fatigue and otherwise is
unremarkable.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs 157/68, 95, 14, 90 percent
02 sat on room air.  General appearance the patient is a
white female in no acute distress.  HEENT examination was
unremarkable.  Chest examination lungs are clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Heart is a regular rate and rhythm
without murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdominal examination
palpable mass in the lower abdomen, normoactive bowel sounds.
There is no tenderness.  The spleen is not enlarged.
Extremities aer without edema.  Neurologically she is intact.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 10.9,
hematocrit 42.1, platelets 247, BUN 17, creatinine 1.0, K
3.3.  CTA of the pelvic vessels was negative for
embolization.  CT of the abdomen was a pelvic mass with IVC
clot versus tumor, which extended to the right atrium.  Liver
function test, ALT 330, AST 96, alkaline phosphatase 152,
total bilirubin was 0.9.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  Intravenous heparinization was
continued.  The patient was placed on bed rest.  Cardiology
was consulted and echocardiogram was done.  A CA 125 and CEA
were obtained.  The patient's hypokalemia was treated.  The
patient's initial echocardiogram demonstrated left
ventricular cavity size as normal.  This was a suboptimal
quality.  There was a focal wall motion abnormalities that
could not be fully excluded. The overall ventricular systolic
function is normal.  The right ventricular chamber size and
free wall motion are normal. The aortic valve was not well
seen, but leaflets appeared normal in mobility.  Mitral valve
leaflets are structurally normal.  The mitral valve is not
seen well.  No mitral regurgitation is seen.  There is no
pericardial effusion.  The right atrial mass could not
adequately be assessed by transesophageal echocardiogram.
There was a cystic mass in the IVC on the right atrial
junction consistent with probable neoplastic process.
Although thrombus could not be excluded, but because of the
complex nature of the mass it is suggestive of tumor.  There
was normal biventricular systolic function. The patient
underwent transesophageal echocardiogram, which confirmed IVC
mass and extension into the right atrium.  Cardiothoracic was
consulted regarding this patient.  Cardiothoracic felt that
they could not make recommendations regarding the patient
secondary awaiting further imaging.  Heme/Oncology was
consulted. The patient's CEA was 19.9.  They recommended gyn
consult for endometrial biopsy and recommended MRI/MRA to
assess IVC.  The MRV, which was done on [**7-8**] demonstrated
right gonadal vein was markedly extended secondary to
thrombus.  The thrombus extends to the inferior vena cava and
fills the super renal IVC, intrahepatic IVC and extends into
the right atrium.  The upper limit of the thrombus was not
visualized on this examination.  This extends above the
abdomen.  Correlation with recent CT confirms that the
thrombus does extend into the right atrium and gadolinium
enhanced images demonstrate marked contrast enhancement of
the thrombus in the atrial phase prior to arrival of venous
return to the inferior vena cava.  The arterial phase images
demonstrated a normal appearance in the abdominal aorta,
iliac arteries and major aortic branches.  Of note, there are
markedly hypertrophied arteries feeding the massive tumor in
the pelvis, which appeared to represent hypertrophied uterine
arteries right greater then left.  The mass was not
specifically evaluated in this study.  Initial CT of the
abdomen and pelvis demonstrate pelvic mass with tumor
thrombus extending into the right gonadal vein with extension
to the IVC at the level of the right atrial junction with
extension into the proximal left renal vein.  There is mass
centered in the region of the uterus and likely represents a
malignant neoplasm.  There are tiny punctate pulmonary
nodules, which are most prominent within the right middle
lobe.  There is prominent retroperitoneal lymph nodes and a
simple hepatic cyst.  The patient's CEA was less then 1,
normal range is 0 to 4.  The CA 125 was 15, normal range 0 to
35.

Vascular Surgery was consulted regarding this patient and
extension of her tumor.  After consultation with the involved
services, thoracic, vascular and gyn/oncology it was
determined that the patient undergo an abdominal exploration
and excision of mass.  The patient was then stabilized and
was transferred to the regular medical nursing floor on
[**2177-7-8**].  The patient continued on her intravenous
heparinization.  Heme/oncology continued to follow the
patient.  Final recommendations will be made awaiting final
pathology.  The patient underwent on [**2177-7-11**] total abdominal
hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo oophorectomy, resection
of  the tumor from ovarian vein and IVC,k resection of
mesenteric lymph node.  Intraoperative findings showed an
enlarged uterus about 20 week size (uterus) with bilateral
invasion of tumor into the ovaries and parenchyma.  The right
gonadal vein and IVC were invaded with tumor.  The patient
tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the PACU
in stable condition.  She was extubated.  She remained
hemodynamically stable.  She was then transferred to the
Vascular VICU for continued monitoring and care.  On
postoperative day one there were no overnight events.
Analgesic medication was adjusted for improved analgesic
control.  Her postoperative hematocrit was 32.9 with a total
white blood cell count of 18.1.  Platelets 231, BUN 11,
creatinine 0.7.  Dressings were with staining serous
drainage.  The abdomen was soft, nondistended.  There were no
bowel sounds.  The patient required intravenous bolus for low
urinary output.  She remained NPO.  Perioperative Levaquin
was continued.  Platelets were monitored.  Venodynes for deep
venous thrombosis prophylaxis.  On p