Admission Date:  [**2111-8-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2111-9-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2066-11-17**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIAC CARE UNIT
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 44 year-old male with
cardiac risk factors of hypertension who presented to the
Emergency Room on [**2111-8-27**] after having "shortness of breath
attack" while walking.  This resolved with rest after a few
minutes.  Patient also reports two weeks of bilateral lower
venous thrombosis which was negative.  He was started as an
outpatient on Keflex with no improvement for question
cellulitis.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No chest pain, no jaw or neck pain.  No
viral syndrome.  Occasional fever.  No cough.  No paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea.  Question orthopnea.
On presentation to the Emergency Room vital signs -
temperature of 100.4, heart rate of 115, blood pressure
109/87.  He had a pulse oximetry of 97% on room air. Patient
was initially treated with nebulizers for exacerbation with
small improvement.  He was also treated with intravenous
Oxacillin for question of cellulitis and Lasix 40 mg
intravenous for lower extremity edema.  Electrocardiogram was
done which did not show any significant change.  Chest x-ray
and CT angiogram showed no pulmonary embolus.  Cardiac
echocardiogram was obtained and showed ejection fraction of
less than 20 percent with severe global LVHK, RVHK and 3+
mitral regurgitation.  Patient was admitted to the Cardiac
Care Unit for evaluation of cardiomyopathy.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Asthma childhood, no intubation.
Positive hospitalization.  2) Hypertension times three.  3)
Gout.  4) Anemia.  5) GERD/peptic ulcer disease.  6)
Depression.  7) Kidney stones.

OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS:  Included 1) Keflex.  2) Prilosec.
3) Zoloft.  4) Theophylline.  5) Albuterol.  6) Accolate.  7)
Flovent. 8) Univasc 15 mg p.o. q.d. for the past year.  9)
Colchicine.  10) Allopurinol.  11) Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.
which had been titrated up over the past few weeks.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient is an R.N. at [**Hospital **] Hospital.  No
tobacco.  Rare alcohol.  No other drugs.  Patient describes
herself as celibate.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Brother with [**Name (NI) **] [**Name (NI) 108984**] disease.
Father had abdominal aortic aneurysm.  No history of
premature coronary artery disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission generally no distress,
temperature 98.2, blood pressure 107/81, pulse of 106,
respiratory rate of 23, O2 saturation 98% on room air.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat: mucous membranes moist, elevated
jugular venous pulses, exophthalmus.  Pulmonology clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Decreased breath sounds at the
left base.  Heart had distant heart sounds, regular rate and
rhythm.  Cardiac: soft systolic murmur at the apex and a
positive S3.  Abdomen protuberant, soft, nontender,
nondistended, positive hepatojugular reflux, positive bowel
sounds.  Extremities: bilateral lower extremity edema, taut
erythema from thighs down.  No warmth.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count of 7.1, hematocrit
of 32, platelets of 500, INR of 1.5, PTT 29.9 and PT of 14.9.
Chem-7:  sodium 137, potassium 3.5, chloride 56, CO2 22, BUN
26, creatinine .8, glucose 123.  He had a CK of 264, MB of 6,
troponin less than 3.  Calcium 8.6, albumin 3.6, magnesium
1.9, iron 18, TIBC of 550, ferritin was pending, TSH was
pending.  Theophylline level 18.5.  Blood cultures times two
were taken.  Chest x-ray showed prominent central pulmonary
artery, possible emphysema, possible early pneumonia.

CT of the chest showed no pulmonary embolus, left apical
opacity, question of fibrosis, 5 mm nodular density in the
left lower lobe, borderline mediastinal adenopathy.

Echocardiogram:  ejection fraction of less than 20 percent,
mild left atrial dilatation, mild symmetrical left
ventricular hypertrophy, moderated dilated left ventricle,
severe global LVHK, moderate global right ventricle, free
wall HK, 3+ mitral regurgitation, 2+ moderate tricuspid
regurgitation, moderate [**Last Name (un) 6879**], no effusion.

Electrocardiogram: ST at 115, LAD, intraventricular
conduction delay, no ST wave abnormalities, T wave flattening
laterally in L and V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  #1:  Cardiac.  1) Coronaries.  Patient
underwent cardiac catheterization which showed no coronary
artery disease.  This was not pursued any further.

2) Ventricular function..  The patient had early decreased
ejection fraction
on admission found to be in severe congestive heart failure.
Etiology was unclear.  Throughout the hospital stay a work up
was done which included checking thyroid function tests which
were normal, checking VMA and metanephrine for
pheochromocytoma which were normal.  Patient had negative HIV
test as well as negative hepatitis test.  Patient also had
negative [**Doctor First Name **] and negative rheumatoid factor.  At time of
discharge it was unclear what had caused the patient's severe
cardiomyopathy thought to be secondary to possible autoimmune
disease with longstanding history of child asthma and history
of atopy.

Patient was in the Cardiac Care Unit for dobutamine secondary
to decreased pulmonary artery venous saturation of less than
40.  Patient was initially weaned off the dobutamine.
Cardiac output and index came over 2 and over 5 but then
these dropped down and patient was started on milrinone.
This was continued for several days as patient continued with
diuresis and hemodynamic monitoring through right internal
jugular Swan.  Patient was eventually diuresed over 22 liters
in the Cardiac Care Unit and was stabilized on a cardiac
regimen of spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.d., Captopril 100 mg
p.o. t.i.d., Digoxin .125 mg p.o. q.d. and Coreg was
eventually added at .125 mg p.o. b.i.d.  During this time
patient was also worked up for possible heart transplant and
transplant laboratories were sent.  However, with this
improvement in cardiac output and cardiac index and the
ability to stay off milrinone with good cardiac output and
cardiac index patient was never formally placed on the
transplant list.  Patient was transferred from the Cardiac
Care Unit to Floor 3 on [**9-11**] and patient was eventually
discharged in stable condition to home to follow up with
heart failure clinic in two weeks.  Patient was also to have
[**Hospital6 407**] heart failure service follow him
at home as well as possibly having home health aides come to
his house to monitor his eating habits.  Patient was seen by
nutrition for evaluation of his diet.  The patient was kept
on a strict 1500 ml restriction throughout his stay which
toward the end he was compliant with.  His dry weight ended
up being around 182 pounds and patient was informed to call
or page one of the heart failure nurses if his weight
increased greater than two pounds over this dry weight.

3)  Arrhythmia.  Patient had episodes of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia and supraventricular tachycardia
while on the milrinone.  Patient was evaluated by Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] and started on amiodarone.  After his milrinone was
stopped the patient's episodes of supraventricular
tachycardia and ventricular tachycardia also stopped.  His
amiodarone was also eventually stopped before admission and
there was no indication for placement of an AICD.

#2:  Hematolgy.  The patient had a goal hematocrit throughout his
of greater than 30.  Patient had come in with hematocrit of
32.  Patient's hematocrit rose to the 37 - 38 range while an
inpatient after diuresis and patient did not require
transfusion for this hematocrit.  Patient was started on
FESO4 325 mg p.o. q.d. for an iron level of 19.  Patient had
anti-endomyelithial antibodies sent which were negative.  The
etiology of his anemia remained unclear at discharge.

#3:  Infectious disease.  The patient was originally started
on Oxacillin at admission for question of cellulitis.  The
cellulitic changes likely represented chronic right sided
heart failure.  Patient completed a seven day course of
Oxacillin which was changed to dicloxacillin.  Patient never
had any signs of clinical infection and his antibiotics were
stopped after a seven day course.

#4:  Pulmonary.  Pa