Admission Date:  [**2193-1-17**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2131-3-21**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61-year-old
male with a limited past medical history as per family who
was at the gym on the morning of admission working out and
was found to have syncope and arrest by bystanders.  EMS was
called and the patient was brought back after asystole with
Epinephrine and Atropine and five shocks.  The patient was
resuscitated for 15 minutes and then had stable blood
pressure and heart rate.  The patient was started on Dopamine
and Lidocaine and transferred to [**Hospital **] [**Hospital 1459**] Hospital
where he was noted to have posturing.  Head CT was done
showing questionable swelling but no bruits.  There were
questionable ischemic changes on EKG.  The patient was then
transferred to [**Hospital1 **].  While at the outside hospital, patient's
Dopamine was weaned off.  The family could only provide a
limited history as the patient lives by himself.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Arthritis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Unknown.

MEDICATIONS:  On transfer, Aspirin, Heparin IV, Lidocaine IV.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives alone, never married, no children.
Smoking status unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Blood pressure 85/60, heart rate 85,
respirations 16.  Head and neck exam, JVD 5 cm, no bruits,
intubated.  Cardiac exam, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs, rubs
or gallops.  Chest, coarse breath sounds with rhonchi.
Abdomen soft, nontender, good bowel sounds in all four
quadrants.  Extremities, right and left upper extremity with
distal cyanosis, no palpable radial pulses bilaterally.  Also
distal lower extremities with no palpable right or left PT or
DP pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count 12.2,
hematocrit 40, platelet count 219,000, sodium 142, potassium
3.6, chloride 109, CO2 23, BUN 16, creatinine 1.3, CPK 305,
troponin .286, ABG with PH 7.15, CO2 49, O2 429 on 100% IMV
12/700.  EKG showed sinus bradycardia with APC's and [**Street Address(2) 4793**]
elevation V2, [**Street Address(2) 4793**] depression in V3.  Second EKG showed
normal sinus rhythm at 87 with inverted T waves in V3 through
V6.  Chest x-ray reportedly showed mild CHF and cardiomegaly.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular:  The possible etiology of the patient's
acute asystole which the patient was in acute myocardial
infarction vs arrhythmia.  The patient had no known history
of coronary artery disease but the family new very little
about the patient's past medical history.  The patient did
not have elevated cardiac enzymes and no EKG changes to
suggest acute ischemia.  The patient was placed on Heparin
for an acute coronary syndrome.  After admission, the patient
experienced a seizure with tachypnea and tachycardia and
rapidly afterwards developed flash pulmonary edema.  The
patient was given Morphine and Dilantin and his blood
pressure fell such that he required inotropic support with
Dopamine.  Chest x-ray demonstrated interstitial edema with
perihilar haziness consistent with CHF.  The patient was
treated with Lasix and supplemental oxygen.  As he diuresed,
his oxygen requirements decreased and his Dopamine was weaned
down.

A TTE was obtained which demonstrated enlarged left atrium,
mildly decreased left ventricular function with an ejection
fraction of 40-45%, global mild hypokinesis with apical
anterior and septal hypokinesis, mildly dilated aortic root
with pulmonary hypertension.  Given his relatively good
ejection fraction in conjunction with the patient's episode
of flash pulmonary edema, it was felt that he most likely
suffered diastolic as opposed to systolic heart dysfunction.

The Heparin drip was discontinued when the patient developed
a significant nasal bleed as well as questionable increasing
left groin hematoma.  The patient was, however, continued on
Aspirin therapy and he was started on a beta blocker which
was slowly titrated up as tolerated over the hospital stay to
Lopressor 50 mg po bid and then switched over to once a day
beta blockers, Atenolol 25 mg po q d.  Dopamine was also
weaned and the patient remained hemodynamically stable.  The
patient was also started on an ACE inhibitor, Lisinopril 5 mg
po q d.

Consideration was given to catheterization to determine
whether or not the patient had coronary artery disease and it
was determined to revisit the issue once the patient's
neurological status had declared itself.  The patient had no
events on telemetry over the hospital stay.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient was intubated in the field and
was maintained on support over the first few hospital days.
ABGs demonstrated adequate oxygenation, ventilation.  The
patient then suffered a flash pulmonary edema after a seizure
which was treated with increased FIO2 and diuresis.  The
patient was started on Ceftriaxone and Flagyl for a presumed
aspiration pneumonia.  The patient tried to wean off the
ventilator when he self extubated, then tolerated this
without difficulty.  The patient was slowly weaned off
supplemental oxygen and ultimately required no oxygen.  Chest
x-ray obtained during hospital course revealed no evidence of
remaining pulmonary edema.  Furthermore, antibiotics were
discontinued.

3.  Neuro:  A neurological consult was obtained at admission
secondary to witnessed seizure at the time of admission.  The
patient was thought to have suffered low cerebral perfusion
during asystolic event and CT scan demonstrated left mid
brain edema.  The patient demonstrated posturing after his
admission seizure which slowly resolved over the hospital
stay.  He was loaded with Dilantin and treated with 100 mg IV
tid.  An EEG demonstrated diffuse swelling consistent with
encephalopathy but no epileptiform activity.  Further
analysis over the next few days suggested the patient had a
70% chance of meaningful neurologic recovery.  Over the
remainder of the hospital course the patient had significant
improvement in his neurological status in that he was no
longer posturing, started following commands, and could
answer questions.  However, the patient was unable to swallow
during hospital stay.  A nasogastric tube was initially
placed, and in prognosticating the time to full neurologic
recovery, a PEG tube was placed.

4.  Renal:  The patient's creatinine was mildly elevated at
the time of admission to 1.5.  However, this quickly dropped
to within normal limits and the patient had good urine output
over hospital stay.  Creatinine dropped to .9 towards the end
of admission.

5.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was kept on Protonix for
GI prophylaxis.  As the patient could not swallow, a
nasogastric tube was initially placed, followed by a PEG tube
in light of the fact that the patient's neurologic status
would not return to normal for awhile and would need such
means for nutritional support.

6.  Infectious Disease:  The patient was febrile with a
significant left shift and bandemia at the time of admission.
Blood and urine cultures showed no growth, chest x-ray did
not definitively suggest pneumonia, and no source of
infection could be found.  However, the patient was started
on Ceftriaxone and Flagyl with the intent to complete a 7 day
course of treated presumed aspiration pneumonia.  This course
was completed on [**2193-1-23**].  The patient then spiked a
temperature to 100.9.  Cultures showed no growth thus far and
chest x-ray was negative.  As the temperature persisted, a
lumbar puncture was obtained and was negative.  In light of
all negative cultures, the only remaining possible etiology
was drug fever, possibly secondary to Dilantin.  Dilantin was
discontinued and in place patient was placed on Depakote for
seizure prophylaxis, and after Dilantin was discontinued, the
patient was afebrile for remainder of hospital course.

7.  Hematology:  The patient was placed on Heparin initially
for an acute coronary syndrome.  Heparin was discontinued
secondary to questionable groin hematoma and significant
nasal bleed associated with a drop in his hematocrit that
normalized without transfusion.  Hemolysis labs and iron
studies were nor