Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 66471**]
Admission Date: [**2107-2-28**]
Discharge Date: [**2107-3-10**]
Date of Birth:  [**2028-7-26**]
Sex:  M
Service:  TRA


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 78-year-old male
status post a trip and fall down 9 steps. He is complaining
of back pain. He has had mental status changes, although he
has not had any loss of consciousness and he does not
remember the details of the accident. He was restrained in
the field. He has an obvious laceration on the bridge of his
nose as well as on the medial left collar bone. He is
obviously intoxicated.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.

MEDICATIONS:  At home he takes Detrol, alprazolam, verapamil
and doxazosin.

ALLERGIES:  Patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his wife. [**Name (NI) **] does drink
extensive amounts of alcohol. He stopped smoking 20 years
ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  In general, patient is agitated and
confused. He has a heart rate of 85. Blood pressure of 174/85
and O2 saturation of 99%. GCS of 14. On his head, he has a
laceration on the vertex of his head, a hematoma above his
right eyebrow and a laceration to the bridge of his nose.
Pupils equally, round and reactive to light. Extraocular
movements are intact. He had a C collar in place. No cervical
spine tenderness. Trachea is midline. Chest is clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Sternum is stable. Heart is regular
rate and rhythm. Abdomen is soft, nondistended. __________
was equivocal. He had a large abrasion on his right flank.
Back had no step offs, no abrasions, appeared to be
nontender. Rectal exam had good tone and was guaiac negative.
Extremities showed a superficial abrasion to the left shin.

Multiple images were obtained. A chest x-ray showed question
of right upper lobe infiltrate. A pelvis film was negative.
Head CT was negative. CT of the C spine showed hyperextension
of T1 and C5-C6 and degenerative disease. CT of the face
showed a nasal fracture. CT of his abdomen was negative. CT
of his chest showed trace pleural effusion and atelectasis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was intubated at that time and was
transferred to the intensive care unit for further care. He
did have his C collar in place and was left on log roll
precautions initially. He was placed on Pneumoboots and
heparin subQ for DVT prophylaxis. He did have a face consult
who evaluated the nose and decided that they would not pursue
operative management as that might be dangerous for the C
spine injury. The neurosurgery service saw the patient and
decided to only do conservative management and leave the
collar on for 6 weeks at the end of which they will
reevaluate his spine and decide if there needs to be
operative management. They would like follow up x-rays done
in approximately 2 weeks to be brought to follow up. The
patient initially did well, was extubated successfully and
was transferred to the floor where he was remained on a CIWA
scale. However, about 36 hours after being on the floor the
patient coded with apneic and bradycardic arrest. ACLS
protocol was initiated. The patient was reintubated, given
atropine and epinephrine and was revived. It was not
determined what caused the event, although cardiology was
involved. Patient was ruled out for an MI. There was a
possibility he may have aspirated and there may be a
possibility there was a combination of medications, although
no definitive answer was achieved. Once he did get to the ICU
it became apparent that his blood pressure became
increasingly more and more difficult to control. This was
felt to be due partial to withdraw. He did receive a large
amount of Ativan while he was here. He also received an MRI
of his head to ensure that there was nothing else going on
that was negative. Neurology was consulted, because the
patient persistently would not clear. It was felt that this
was due to a toxic metabolic process and not something
intrinsic to his brain. He did develop a E coli UTI and a
methicillin sensitive staph aureus pneumonia. Both of those
were treated with Vancomycin and Flagyl. Once it was evident
that the patient would not extubate quickly, patient did
undergo tracheostomy and PEG placement. This was uneventful
and patient was restarted on tube feeds through the PEG,
which was very well tolerated.

In addition to his CIWA scale, patient was also receiving
thiamine and folate to prevent any neurological sequela.
Towards the end of the patient's stay his BUN and creatinine
did start to increase mildly, however, this was felt to be
due to diuresing him a little too quickly and him being NPO
for his PEG and trach placement. It is felt that with a
little bit of time this will go back to the other direction
and with a little bit of fluid. It is now [**2107-3-9**] and
the patient was being discharged in good condition. He is
still on a vent machine, although believed he will be able to
be weaned quickly. He does have a PEG and trach in place and
requires regular PEG and trach care. He does require physical
therapy and occupational therapy as he is currently bed
bound, because of his lack of neurological clearing. Although
there is no reason why he should not get out of bed if the
proper precautions be taken. He does have a C collar in place
and must keep that for another 4 and a half weeks.

He should follow up with neurosurgery in approximately 2
weeks at which time he should have C spine films performed.
He should follow up with neurology in approximately 2 weeks.
He should follow up in the trauma clinic in approximately 2
weeks. He will be discharged on tube feeds ProMod with fiber
full strength at a goal of 85 cc an hour to be flushed with
100 cc of water every 6 hours. He will be discharged with
Tylenol 650 mg per G tube every 6 hours p.r.n., albuterol 2
to 4 puffs every 4 hours, bisacodyl 10 mg every day p.r.n.,
captopril 50 mg per PEG tube t.i.d., Colace 100 mg per PEG
tube b.i.d., folate 1 mg per PEG tube daily, heparin 5000
units subQ t.i.d., hydralazine 20 mg per G tube every 6
hours, Levofloxacin 500 mg per G tube every day x3 more days,
Ativan 1 mg every 6 hours standing and 1 to 2 mg every 4 hour
p.r.n. Both Ativan orders to be weaned actively. Lopressor
100 mg  per PEG tube t.i.d., Roxicet 5 to 10 ml per PEG tube
every 6 hours p.r.n. pain, multivitamins 1 capsule per PEG
tube daily, Protonix 40 mg per PEG tube daily, thiamin 100 mg
per PEG tube daily, vancomycin 1250 mg IV every 12 for 6 more
days. Please check a vancomycin trough prior to the first
dose. Also please check a BUN and creatinine in the next 24
to 48 hours to make sure that it does drop. He is leaving
with a BUN of 59 and creatinine of 1.7.

FINAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  A fall down stairs with
hyperextension of the T1 extending into the middle column and
C5-C6 disc spaces, nasal fracture, delirium tremens, staph
pneumonia, E coli urinary tract infection, mild renal
failure, hypertension, delirium.



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initial (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D. [**MD Number(1) **]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3956**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2107-3-10**] 09:17:54
T:  [**2107-3-10**] 10:07:48
Job#:  [**Job Number 66472**]



