Admission Date:  [**2118-2-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2118-2-16**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Initially admitted for complaints of
shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 72 year old female
with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
hypertension, hyperlipidemia; strong tobacco history; now
being evaluated for increased shortness of breath and dyspnea
on exertion.  The patient reports usual state of health until
one day prior to admission when she developed increased
shortness of breath and wheezing, dyspnea on exertion.  She
reports increased productive cough.  Shortness of breath not
worse when supine. Increased nasal congestion.  No headaches,
no fevers, chills, nausea and vomiting.  Denies chest pain,
palpitations, lower extremity edema.  No paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea. No orthopnea. No immediate sick contacts.  The
patient does attend a community center with elderly
individuals and some have had colds.  She denies any weight
gain, bowel or urinary changes, no abdominal pain.

She arrived in the Emergency Room where chest x-ray revealed
mild congestive heart failure.  She was found to be afebrile.
Hemodynamically stable with oxygen saturations in the low
90's on room air.  97% on four liters.  The patient denies
any home oxygen at baseline. The patient received intravenous
Solu-Medrol, nebs and reported symptomatic improvement in her
shortness of breath and wheezing.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.) Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. Intubated once.  No home oxygen.  The patient
reports severe dyspnea at baseline.  2.) Hypertension.  3.)
Hyperlipidemia.  4.) Status post total abdominal hysterectomy
in [**2079**].  5.) Status post hernia repair in [**2081**].  6.)
Irritable bowel syndrome.  7.) Questionable diastolic
dysfunction.  8.) Borderline pulmonary hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
lopressor 100 mg three times a day.
Captopril 12.5 mg three times a day.
Lipitor 20 mg q.o.d.
Procardia 30 mg q. day.
Albuterol prn.
Atrovent prn.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives alone at the [**Location (un) 4398**].  She
reports 80 pack year of tobacco.  She is still smoking at the
time of admission.  She denies any alcohol or intravenous
drug abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, she is afebrile at 98;
blood pressure 124/70; pulse 88; 16 respiratory rate; 97% on
four liters.  In general, she is an elderly female, sitting
on the bed, legs dangling.  Pleasant. HEAD, EYES, EARS, NOSE
AND THROAT:  Significant for dry mucous membranes but no
jugular venous distention appreciated. Cardiovascular is
significant for faint heart sounds, S1 and S2 audible.
Pulmonary shows scattered wheezing, rhonchi. Abdominal
examination:  Obese, mildly distended, positive bowel sounds,
nontender.  Extremities showed no edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count of 6.5; hematocrit of 49;
platelets 129.  Chemistry 7 is remarkable.  Chest x-ray
showed mild congestive heart failure, no infiltrates.  Echo
from [**11-19**] shows ejection fraction of 70% and impaired
relaxation; borderline pulmonary hypertension; mild 1+ aortic
insufficiency; 1+ mitral regurgitation.  She had a stress
test in [**2114**] which showed mixed arteriosclerotic disease and
irreversible inferior apical perfusion defect.  Ejection
fraction was 67%.  Her electrocardiogram from admission
showed sinus rhythm at 75 beats per minute; normal axis;
borderline left atrial abnormality; normal intervals; no
signs of ischemia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   1.) Cardiovascular:  The patient came in
for presumed chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
exacerbation without any cardiac symptoms.  Of note, she had
cardiac risk factors of tobacco, hypertension,
hyperlipidemia.  On hospital day number two, the patient
reports several episodes of chest pain, resolving with
nitroglycerin.  These episodes continued to persist, however,
and electrocardiogram showed evidence of ST depression in
lateral leads, V4 through V6.  It was felt at this point,
that the patient had unstable angina. Cardiology was
consulted.  The patient was started on heparin drip and was
transferred to the cardiac floor for nitroglycerin drip.  The
patient had difficulty in terms of somewhat low blood
pressures and difficulty titrating up beta blocker and ace
inhibitor.

The patient went to the cardiac  catheterization laboratory
on hospital day number three. Catheterization at that time
showed a complex, eccentric 90% lesion in her left anterior
descending, level of D-1. She underwent subsequent left
anterior descending stent successfully.  In addition, she had
a 60% proximal lesion in her left circumflex, in the region
of the obtuse marginal one and total occlusion of the left
circumflex after obtuse marginal two.  Fortunately, stent was
not able to be placed in this diseased left circumflex;
rather, she did receive percutaneous angioplasty via balloon.
It was thought that the left circumflex would not be a good
candidate for stenting, due to the fact that it was an
extremely long lesion and a very small caliber vessel.
Following procedure, she did have bumps in her CK's and
Troponins.  CK's were trending down after several days.  She
was continued on aspirin and started on Plavix and had her
Lipitor dose increased.  Overall, the patient did report
improvement in her chest pressure; however, further along in
her hospital course, she was still complaining of jaw and
tongue numbness, which was thought to be somewhat of an
anginal equivalent.  For this reason, cardiology was
reconsulted.

At this time, they recommended basic medical management of
her symptoms.  The patient's Lipitor dose was increased to 40
mg q. day.  She was continued on aspirin and Plavix. She was
started on low dose beta blockade and calcium channel
blockade as possible ways to improve rate control and
possible causes of ischemia.  She was maintained on a low
dose ace inhibitor as her pressures hovered in the high 90's,
low 100's.  It was felt at this time that the patient does
have coronary artery disease but, at this point, medical
management appears to be the best option as her catheter
report showed limited ability to intervene on small caliber
vessels.

As the patient's respiratory status declined, it was
sometimes unclear as whether the patient was in heart failure
versus severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
exacerbation.  She was diuresed with Lasix and responded with
excellent urinary output.  She ended up having a follow-up
transthoracic echocardiogram on [**2-9**], showing an ejection
fraction of greater than 55% with normal left atrium and mild
left ventricular hypertrophy with focal HK of her basilar
inferior wall.  Otherwise, from a cardiovascular standpoint,
the patient remained persistently tachycardiac during her
hospital course into the low 90's and low 100's.  This was
somewhat difficult to control, given the patient's need for
nebulizers, possibly clouding the picture.  Per cardiology
recommendations, low dose beta blockade was started, as well
as calcium channel blocker so as not to worsen her chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation. These could be
considered to changing to longer acting preparations once her
doses are stabilized.

2.) Pulmonary:  The patient was initially admitted with a
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation and
initially treated with intravenous Solu-Medrol and Levaquin.
Of note, the patient denies home oxygen prior to her
admission, although she admits to relatively poor functional
status, reporting severe dyspnea on exertion with minimal
amounts of activity.  By hospital day number two, the
patient's respiratory status showed signs of worsening.  This
was confounded by the fact of her unstable angina and, at
times, it was difficult to ascertain whether the patient was
in congestive heart failure versus chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease exacerbation.  As mentioned above, the
patient had been diuresed with small amounts of Lasix with
excellent urinary output.

Following her cardiac catheterization, however, the patient's
respiratory status continued to decline.  Arterial blood
gases at that time s