Admission Date:  [**2157-4-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2157-4-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2084-3-2**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Medical Intensive Care Unit

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Diarrhea

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73 year old
woman with chronic medical problems listed separately below
who underwent bunion surgery [**67**] days prior to presentation
(and also had a nosebleed two days prior to presentation for
which she was seen in an outside hospital Emergency
Department).  She presented to the Emergency Department
complaining of black diarrhea today.  She denied abdominal
pain, fevers, nausea, vomiting, sick contacts but has had
chills.  She reports that she was given a prescription for
Augmentin following her bunion surgery and she has taken this
medication.  For the five days prior to presentation she has
had larger volumes of diarrhea and also reports decreased
p.o. intake.

In the Emergency Department the patient underwent nasogastric
lavage with bilious return.  She received 4 liters of normal
saline for hypotension (systolic blood pressure of 92).  She
was also found to be hyperkalemic for which she received
Kayexalate 30 gm and Calcium Gluconate as well.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient states that she felt thirsty.
She had no chest pain.  She states that she had two pillow
orthopnea, sleeps with bricks and pillows under the head of
her bed.  She also states that she is short of breath after
climbing a flight of stairs at her house.  She denied lower
extremity edema, nocturia or chest pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, she requires supplemental oxygenation at home.  2.
Congestive heart failure, her last echocardiogram showed an
ejection fraction of 40 to 45%.  3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Obstructive sleep apnea/obesity.  5.  Status post total
abdominal hysterectomy.  6.  Status post cholecystectomy on
[**2156-8-30**].  7.  Status post bilateral total knee
replacement in [**2150**].  8.  Hiatal hernia.  9.  Bunion surgery
on [**2157-3-29**].

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her husband.  She has
a 50 pack year smoking history.  She quit smoking
approximately 25 years ago.  Of note, her husband also has
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and requires
supplemental oxygenation.

MEDICATIONS ON PRESENTATION:  1.  Prilosec 20 mg daily; 2.
Metoprolol extended release 25 mg daily; 3.  Zocor 40 mg
daily;  4. Quinine 260 mg daily; 5.  Dicyclomine 20 mg as
needed; 6.  Guaifenesin LA 600 mg twice daily; 7.  Vicodin
7.5 mg tablets as needed for pain; 8.  Enteric coated Aspirin
one capsule daily; 9.  Vitamin B6 100 mg daily; 10. Vitamin
B12, 500 mg daily; 11. Singulair 10 mg daily; 12. Advair
50/500 two puffs daily; 13. Atrovent 2 puffs q.i.d.; 14.
Augmentin 875 mg p.o. b.i.d. since bunion surgery.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on presentation
revealed temperature 96.8, heartrate 83, blood pressure
89/64, respiratory rate 18 to 20.  Oxygen saturation was 94
to 95% on 2 liters of nasal cannula.  Generally, the patient
was comfortable, awake, alert, slightly hard of hearing.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat, normocephalic, atraumatic,
anicteric, normal conjunctivae, pupils equal, round and
reactive to light from 4 ml to 2.5 ml.  Extraocular movements
intact without nystagmus.  Throat clear.  Neck:  Supple, full
range of motion, jugular veins not appreciable.  No
lymphadenopathy, thyroid not palpable.  Heart:  Point of
maximal impulse not displaced, regular, normal S1 and S2,
II/VI systolic murmur at base bilaterally, contraction of
arms.  Lungs, decreased excursion, clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen, obese, normal bowel sounds, slightly
distended, soft, not tender.  Liver edge and spleen not
palpable.  Extremities, equivocal clubbing, no rash, warm,
dry.  Sutures over second toes with rods in the second toes
bilaterally.  Vascular, radial, carotid and dorsalis pedis
pulses +2 bilaterally.  Neurologic, alert, oriented, speaking
in full sentences, intact shortterm and longterm memory.
Motor, upper extremity, lower extremity, proximal and distal
muscle strength 5/5 although she was too lightheaded to
stand.  Cerebellum, normal rapid hand movements.  Cranial
nerves II, III, IV, VI normal as above, cranial nerves V and
VII symmetric with normal sensation, cranial nerves IX, X and
XII normal gag, tongue midline, clear phonation.  Cranial
nerves [**Doctor First Name 81**] normal shoulder shrug.

LABORATORY DATA:  At laboratory evaluation, white blood cell
count 31.3, hematocrit 39.7, platelets 527.  Chemistry,
128/7.7, 89/20, 100/4.2, glucose 140.  Repeat chemistry panel
revealed sodium 133, potassium 6.2, chloride 95, bicarbonate
22.  Blood urea nitrogen 95, creatinine 3.9, glucose 125.
ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, albumin, total bilirubin,
amylase and lipase and INR were normal.  Urinalysis was
unremarkable.  Urine electrolytes, sodium less than 10, urea
nitrogen 233, urine creatinine 202, urine potassium 65, urine
chloride less than 10.  Fractional excreted sodium was less
than 0.1%.  Electrocardiogram, sinus at 82, PR interval less
than 200 milliseconds, QRS interval was less than 120
milliseconds and the QT interval was 416 seconds.  Axis was
left with qR in leads 1 and AVL and a rS in 2, 3 and F.
There were no peak T waves, there was no acute ST segment
change.  This was consistent with left anterior fascicle
block.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Hyperkalemia - On the night of
admission, the patient required several additional gm of
calcium gluconate, approximately 30 units of regular insulin
and several injections of sodium bicarbonate to acutely
decrease the potassium.  She also received Kayexalate as
well.  Following rehydration her BUN and creatinine returned
to [**Location 213**] and she had normal renal function for the duration
of the hospital course.

2.  Upon arrival in the Medical Intensive Care Unit the
patient's serial blood gases revealed hypercarbia and
hypoxia.  She was intubated.  Central venous access was
established.  She received several boluses of fluids to
maintain blood pressure.  Ultimately she required
administration of pressors to maintain her blood pressure.

3.  Infectious disease - Given her history of prior surgery,
long course of antibiotics and a visit to an outside
Emergency Department, the patient was treated with
Metronidazole by mouth and intravenously for presumed
pseudomembranous colitis.  Subsequent detection of
Clostridium difficile A in her stool confirmed infection with
the [**Doctor Last Name 360**] of this disease.  She had large volumes of diarrhea
as well as increased nasogastric suctioning contents.
Ultimately her treatment for Clostridium difficile was
switched to Vancomycin per os, per rectum and intravenously.
Her white blood cell count remained elevated for the duration
of her hospital course.  Interval colonoscopy confirmed the
presence of pseudomembranes, likewise computer tomograph
evaluation of the abdomen and pelvis confirmed involvement on
the entire large colon.  Of note, the patient received a four
day course of Xigris since she met inclusion criteria of
sepsis.

4.  Hypotension - The patient had persistent hypotension
during her hospital course.  She underwent Swan-Ganz
catheterization which confirmed distributed and cardiogenic
shock.  The patient was unable to tolerate weaning from
pressor agents, specifically requiring Dopamine for the
duration of her hospital stay to maintain blood pressure.  Of
note, the patient was exquisitely sensitive to withdrawal of
this [**Doctor Last Name 360**] and would have precipitous drop in her blood
pressure as well as bradycardia upon its discontinuation.
Similarly the patient could not tolerate higher than 20
mcg/kg/min of this medication as she developed an inferior
myocardial infarction when the medication was increased to
37.

Of note, the patient had a left lower lobe consolidation on
chest x-ray.  Sputum cultures confirmed that she had
pneumonia with Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
although she was initially treated with Levofloxacin for
community acquired pneumonia, the intravenous Vancomycin
administered as part of the regimen for Clostridiu