Admission Date:  [**2123-3-30**]     Discharge Date: [**2123-4-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2055-7-29**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Dyspnea and weakness.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 67-year-old woman with
lupus scleroderma, chronically on steroids, with multiple
past pneumonias; who, two days prior to admission started
feeling extremely fatigued.

On the morning of admission she was unsteady on her feet.
Her husband noted her temperature at home to be up to 103
degrees.  He brought her to the Emergency Department for
evaluation where she developed respiratory distress and was
intubated.  She denied not have any nausea, vomiting, or
cough while at home.

She has had multiple pneumonias in the past; usually
levofloxacin-sensitive streptococcus pneumoniae and has had
multiple sputums with Mycobacterium avium intracellulare.
She has had sputum smears taken ever since a positive
purified protein derivative dating back to [**2101**].  She does
not have a history of tuberculosis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Lupus.
2.  Migraine headaches.
3.  Autoimmune hepatitis.
4.  Severe gastroesophageal reflux disease.
5.  Status post colectomy (atonic colon as a complication of
lupus).
6.  In [**2108**], rheumatoid arthritis.
7.  Status post appendectomy.
8.  Status post hysterectomy.
9.  She also had revealed endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography on [**2123-3-9**] for pancreatitis;
at which time she received sphincterotomy of a stenosis in
the major papilla.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at home included
prednisone 15 mg p.o. q.d., Prevacid 30 mg p.o. b.i.d., folic
acid 1 mg p.o. q.d., Celexa 20 mg p.o. q.d., Vioxx 25 mg p.o.
q.d., Dilantin 200 mg p.o. b.i.d., Vivelle patch (estrogen)
two times per week, Keppra 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.
(antiepileptic), Estrace cream 0.01% q.d., Procardia 10 mg
p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. for migraine headaches, Imitrex 25 mg p.o.
p.r.n. for migraine headaches, verapamil 180 mg p.o. q.d.
(migraine prophylaxis), Vicodin 5/500 p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  A rash with NAPROXEN (she reports no problems
with ibuprofen), METHOTREXATE causes nausea, CODEINE causes
nausea.  She is allergic to PENICILLAMINE (note that she is
not allergic to PENICILLIN).  PLAQUENIL causes visual
disturbances.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Immigrated from [**Country 22965**] in the [**2070**].  She is
a retired nurse.  She has three daughters who are nurse
anesthetizes and a son who is [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Name (NI) 33963**] film maker.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She has fair exercise tolerance at
baseline.  She can walk eight flights of stairs without
dyspnea, although she gets occlusion fatigue.  She takes some
oral food, but her nutrition is mostly Vital high nitrogen 1
liter every night.  She has had chronic diarrhea since her
colectomy in [**2108**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature of 99.9,
pulse of 106, blood pressure of 81/55, respiratory rate
of 18.  In general, a thin woman who was intubated and
sedated, occasionally moved four extremities.  Chest revealed
coarse breath sounds on the right but with good air movement.
 The left side was clear.  Cardiovascular was tachycardic,
normal first heart sound and second heart sound. No murmurs.
The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended, with
positive bowel sounds.  She had a jejunostomy tube present in
the left upper quadrant.  Extremities were warm and well
perfused with 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed a white blood cell count of 7.7,
hematocrit of 35.6, platelets of 251.  Differential revealed
neutrophils of 52%, bands of 31%.  PT was 12.8, PTT was 24.5,
INR was 1.1.  Sodium of 136, potassium of 4.2, chloride
of 108, bicarbonate of 19, blood urea nitrogen of 18,
creatinine of 0.5, glucose of 121.  ALT of 83, AST of 87, LDH
of 297, creatine kinase of 108, alkaline phosphatase of 143,
total bilirubin of 0.5, lipase of 31, albumin of 3.9.
Calcium of 8.7, phosphate of 2.2, magnesium of 2.3.  Arterial
blood gas prior to extubation (on 15 liters of oxygen) was
7.31/42/45.  Arterial blood gas was 7.35/33/92 on assist
control 16 X 600.  Gram stain showed 3+ gram-positive cocci
in pairs.  Immunoglobulin levels showed severe immunoglobulin
A deficiency.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray showed right-sided
multifocal pneumonia.

A chest CT angiogram showed no evidence for pulmonary
embolus.

A cardiac echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 55%
to 60% on [**2123-1-30**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:   Assessment and plan revealed a 67-year-old
woman with a history of frequent streptococcus pneumoniae who
now comes in with complaints of cough, fever, and respiratory
difficulty.

The patient was intubated in the Emergency Department on
[**2123-3-30**] because of impending respiratory failure.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  She was initially hypotensive and
required Levophed pressor in order to maintain her blood
pressure.  She also received frequent boluses of normal
saline.  The Levophed was stopped on [**2123-4-1**].  She
initially required fluid boluses after the Levophed was
stopped but did not require any further use of pressors while
in the Medical Intensive Care Unit.

2.  NEUROLOGY:  She has a history of seizure disorder; and
per her online outpatient notes, it appeared that her
neurologist had been trying to transition her from Dilantin
to Keppra.  Therefore, her dose of Dilantin had been getting
gradually reduced while as an outpatient.  Her Dilantin level
was 3.7 on admission.

We opted to load her with Dilantin and to maintain her at a
therapeutic level given our concerns about a possible seizure
in the setting of acute illness.

3.  ENDOCRINE:  She was on oral prednisone daily at home for
her lupus scleroderma.  She was started on stress-dose
steroid of hydrocortisone 100 mg intravenously t.i.d. which
was, in subsequent days, converted to p.o. prednisone as the
patient takes at baseline.

4.  PULMONARY:  The patient's chest x-ray on admission
revealed a large right-sided multilobar pneumonia.  Follow-up
x-rays during the hospitalization initially demonstrated some
involvement of the left lung as well, followed by eventual
clearing of the right lung.  She was extubated without
incident on [**2123-4-11**].

Given that she has a history of frequent recurrent
pneumoniae, the Allergy/Immunology team was consulted, and
they found her to be profoundly immunoglobulin A deficient.
This was likely the source of her frequent pneumonias, her
immune system dysfunction.

5.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  She had a pan-sensitive
streptococcus pneumoniae and was therefore started on
levofloxacin 500 mg q.d.  She continued to be febrile.  Her
arterial line tip was positive for methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus, and she also had [**1-1**] blood culture
bottles that grew methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus.  Therefore, she was stated on vancomycin on [**2123-4-4**].  With the administration of the vancomycin her fever
and white blood count began to fall.

She has a history of chronic sinusitis.  A head CT was
performed which showed evidence of chronic sinusitis as well
as multiple sinus surgeries.  She was started on ceftazidime
and Flagyl on [**2123-4-10**] (as recommended by the
Infectious Disease team).

6.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  She continued to be fed through her
jejunostomy tube while she was here.  She had a gradual
increase of pancreatic enzymes, amylase and lipase, to close
to 300 before they started decreasing on [**2123-4-9**].  Her
primary gastroenteritis (Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] who had performed
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography on her last
month advised that she simply needed an elective repeat
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography after she was
extubated and more stable.

7.  HEMATOLOGY:  She required 1-unit transfusions of packed
red blood cells while she was her.  Per her family, she is
believed to have chronic gastritis and to have a certain
baseline blood loss through the presumed slow
gastrointestinal bleeding.

8.  PULMONARY:  She was very slowed weaned off the ventilator
on a pressure support trial.  She was extubated on the
morning of [**21