Admission Date:  [**2196-5-3**]     Discharge Date:  [**2196-5-20**]


Service:  SURGERY BLUE

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Acute abdomen.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Perforated duodenum.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77 year old female
with a past medical history significant for atrial
fibrillation, coronary artery disease, status post coronary
artery bypass graft and hypertension, who presented to the
Emergency Department with a one day history of acute onset of
abdominal pain and nonbilious, nonbloody emesis.  The
abdominal pain was sharp, localized to the epigastrium, and
nonradiating.  The patient described some loose bowel
movements throughout the day.  She denies any chills or
fevers at home.  She denies any history of nonsteroidal
anti-inflammatory drug use or peptic ulcer disease.  The
patient denies any relationship of the pain to food intake.

In the Emergency Department, the patient spiked a fever to
103 degrees Fahrenheit and the abdominal pain intensified and
became generalized and constant.  She was evaluated by the
Emergency Department physicians at which time a CT scan of
the abdomen and pelvis was obtained along with plain
radiographs of the abdomen.  The plain radiographs of the
abdomen were nondiagnostic.  The CT scan of the abdomen
showed free air along the lateral border of the duodenum and
in the mesentery of the right colon.  The right colon
appeared very thickened with free fluid running down the
right gutter into the pelvis.  A general surgery consultation
was obtained.  Upon evaluation, the patient was found to have
acute abdomen.

The patient was taken to the operating room urgently after
adequate resuscitation and the administration of intravenous
antibiotics.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, the patient
had a fever of 103 degrees, tachycardia to the 120s, blood
pressure 130/70, respiratory rate 20, and oxygen saturation
98%.  She was alert and oriented and conversant.  The lungs
were clear bilaterally.  The heart was regular rate and
rhythm.  The abdomen was rigid with rebound in all four
quadrants.  She had active bowel sounds.  She was heme
negative on rectal examination.  She had no cyanosis,
clubbing or edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, she had a white blood cell
count 7.1, hematocrit 47.2, platelets 321,000.  The
differential on the white count was 53% bands.  Her amylase
was 138, lipase 346, ALT 28, AST 36, alkaline phosphatase 75,
bilirubin 0.9.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Digoxin.
2.  Lasix.
3.  Pravachol.
4.  Zestril.
5.  Atenolol.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the General
Surgery service with urgent exploratory laparotomy.  The
patient was found in the operating room to have a perforated
second and third portion of the duodenum.  The right colon
was thickened with abscess formation.  The patient underwent
a right hemicolectomy and ileostomy.  In addition, the ulcer
was treated with primary closure and placement of
duodenoscopy tubes, gastrostomy, jejunostomy and
cholecystostomy tube.

The patient postoperatively was maintained on antibiotics
including Ampicillin, Ceftriaxone, Flagyl and Fluconazole.
She was maintained in the Intensive Care Unit throughout her
hospitalization.  Her postoperative care was eventful for
prolonged intubation, congestive heart failure needing to be
maintained on Milrinone and atrial fibrillation.

Her nutritional status was supported by TPN followed by
slowly advanced enteral feedings to jejunostomy.  She was
placed on Impact three quarter strength and slowly increased
to her goal rate.

In addition, around postoperative day six, she spiked a
temperature which required further evaluation.  The
evaluation included CT scan of the abdomen.  There was no
evidence of abscess formation or leak on the CAT scan.
However, [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1661**]-[**Location (un) 1662**] amylase was sent which was as high
as 77,000, consistent with a large pancreatic fistula.  The
pancreatic fistula is being maintained and controlled with
the [**Location (un) 1661**]-[**Location (un) 1662**] drains that were placed intraoperatively.

Her atrial fibrillation was being maintained on Amiodarone
drip and two attempts at electrical conversion.

On postoperative day fourteen, she was extubated, however,
maintained in the Intensive Care Unit for close observation
for cardiac and respiratory issues.  She was weaned off the
Milrinone on postoperative day fifteen.  However, on
postoperative day seventeen, she was reintubated for some
respiratory distress.  However, within hours of her
reintubation, the patient was requiring large amounts of
vasopressors and large volumes of crystalloid resuscitation.
Antibiotics were reinitiated.

On physical examination, her abdomen was very markedly
distended and tense.  Of note, her [**Location (un) 1661**]-[**Location (un) 1662**] drains had a
large amount of tube feeds in the bulb suctions.  It was felt
that there was a possibility of a large intestinal leak,
however, this was not proven.  The family was notified of the
events and the poor prognosis.  She was then made comfort
care only and on [**2196-5-20**], the family withdrew support and
the patient expired shortly thereafter.




                          [**Name6 (MD) 843**] [**Name8 (MD) 844**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 845**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 9900**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2196-6-14**]  11:26
T:  [**2196-6-20**]  20:24
JOB#:  [**Job Number 9901**]

cc:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 9902**]