Admission Date:  [**2159-4-17**]       Discharge Date:  [**2159-4-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2114-1-7**]       Sex:  F

Service:  ACOVE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 45 year old
female who presented with vague complaints of abdominal pain
and nausea and was found to be hypertensive with blood
pressure of 230/130 in the emergency department.  She was
transferred from the E.D. to the SICU for management of
hypertensive urgency.  Patient has a past medical history of
very poorly controlled hypertension with poor medication
compliance.  Also has a past medical history significant for
chronic renal failure most likely secondary to hypertension.
Patient states that she was feeling relatively well until a
few days prior to admission when she developed a runny nose
and a sore throat.  She also was complaining of abdominal
pain and some nausea, vomiting as well as a few loose stools
at home.  Patient also complained of drainage from her belly
button for two days.  In the emergency department she was
treated with Lopressor 5 mg IV times four with only minimal
effect.  Her blood pressure was still elevated at 230/140 two
hours after admission in the E.D.  She was then given
labetalol with resultant decrease in blood pressure to
195/133.  Patient was then started on a Nipride drip and her
blood pressure came down three hours later to 146/92.
Patient was changed over to a labetalol drip and patient was
transferred to the SICU.  Patient was evaluated by cardiology
for a question of some EKG changes and the cardiologist felt
that they were not significant.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive for a temperature of 99 at home,
mild headache without visual changes, no dysuria, no chest
pain or dark stools.  She denied lightheadedness, dizziness,
shortness of breath, rash. She did report compliance with her
medications until the few days prior to admission when,
because of nausea, vomiting, she was not able to keep her
medications down.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, severe for many years.
Intermittent compliance with medications.  History of
hospital admissions for hypertension.  Chronic renal failure.
Baseline creatinine 4 to 5 presumably secondary to
hypertension.  Had seen Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1366**] once with plan for
biopsy and Epogen use, but patient has missed previous
followups.  Hepatitis C with normal LFTs.  Anxiety,
depression, question of PTSD.  History of conversion disorder
with inability to walk.  Asthma.  History of CVA in [**2151**]
presenting with right sided weakness.  Negative lupus
anticoagulant and negative anticardiolipin antibodies.
Patient with resultant right sided weakness.  History of
right hip femur fracture on chronic narcotics.  History of
small bowel resection greater than one year ago for question
of colonic ischemia.  History of preeclampsia with pregnancy
in [**2154**].  Cardiac cath in [**2153**] for chest pain and defects on
perfusion scan with no coronary artery lesions, negative
cardiac enzymes.  Gestational diabetes with hemoglobin A1C of
4.6 in [**2158-9-3**].  Bartholin cyst.  Amenorrhea since
[**11-4**].  Negative hCG in [**2159-2-3**].  History of left sided
chest pain with negative cardiac workup.  History of obesity.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin, codeine, strawberries.

MEDICATIONS:  Albuterol inhaler, atenolol 100 q.d., Bumex 2
mg q.d., BuSpar 5 q.d., clonidine p.o. 0.3 mg b.i.d.,
enalapril 20 mg q.d., iron 325 b.i.d., lactulose p.r.n.,
minoxidil 2.5 mg times two each morning, Nephrocaps q.d.,
Norvasc 10 q.d., MS Contin 15 b.i.d., Percocet 5/325 two
pills t.i.d. as needed for pain, triamcinolone twice a day as
needed.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a current smoker with a
greater than 50 pack year smoking history.  Past history of
cocaine use.  Patient states she last used years ago.
Sexually active.  No contraception per OB/GYN notes.  Several
children with multiple medical issues including one child who
is paraplegic secondary to a gunshot wound, one child with a
history of multiple psych hospitalizations, one child was
born with heart disease.  Has five children that she takes
care of at home.  Jehovah's Witness and has refused blood
transfusions in the past.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.9, pulse 77 and
regular, blood pressure 158/93, sat 99%, respiratory rate 20.
Repeat blood pressure 170/100 in the left and 170/100 in the
right.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Mucous membranes moist.  Bilateral shotty
cervical adenopathy.  Neck supple.  Heart regular rate and
rhythm, normal S1, S2, no murmurs, gallops or rubs.  Lungs
clear to auscultation.  Abdomen distended, positive bowel
sounds, umbilicus folded in without drainage.  Liver edge
palpable 4 cm below the costal margin.  No lower extremity
edema, 2+ pulses.  No CVA tenderness.  Reflexes 2+ and
symmetric.  Somnolent, but arouses to voice.  Stretch marks
over abdomen and breasts.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission hematocrit 29.1, baseline 25
to 30; white count 6.6; platelets 227.  UA with negative
nitrite, negative glucose, negative ketones, 30 mg/dl
protein, 0 to 2 red blood cells, 3 to 5 white blood cells,
occasional bacteria.  Creatinine 4.6, glucose 80, potassium
4.3, sodium 141.  HCV antibody positive.  KUB was performed
for patient's history of small bowel obstruction and
abdominal pain and distension.  Impression was no large or
small bowel obstruction.  Chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema
likely related to fluid overload, enlarged heart with
valvular configuration suspicious for possible pericardial
effusion.  No prior films available for comparison.  EKG
normal sinus, QTc 450, ST depressions roughly 2 mm in V1
through V4, T wave inversions in V5 through V6 consistent
with LVH.  LVH and ST changes similar to previous EKG in
[**2154**].

IMPRESSION:  This is a 45 year old female with a history of
severe hypertension, presenting with hypertensive urgency as
well as abdominal pain.  Patient's blood pressure responded
quickly to the medications that were used as described above.
It was felt that the etiology of her hypertensive urgency was
most likely lack of medications from vomiting and perhaps
noncompliance.  Her renal function was unchanged from
baseline.  There was no suggestion of hypertensive emergency;
i.e., there was no change in her baseline poor renal
function.  She had negative cardiac enzymes.  Her history was
not consistent with aortic dissection.  With patient's
history of cocaine use, drug use as a cause of this
hypertensive episode was a possibility; therefore, a tox
screen was sent.  Patient was managed in the SICU initially.
Labetalol drip was turned off.  She was given labetalol p.o.
instead of atenolol.  She was continued on her ACE inhibitor
Norvasc, diuretic Bumex and minoxidil.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Hypertension.  As above, the patient was quickly weaned
off the labetalol drip and placed back on her p.o.
medications with resultant improvement in her blood pressure.
A cardiac echo was obtained for the question of pericardial
effusion on chest x-ray.  This was negative for effusion.
The results of the echo were as follows.  Ejection fraction
60%.  E to A ratio 4.0.  PA pressure 27 mmHg.  Left atrium
moderately dilated.  Right atrium mildly dilated.  Mild
symmetric LVH.  Overall LV function was normal with no
evidence of wall motion abnormalities.  RV size and motion
normal.  No pericardial effusion.  Patient was transferred to
the floor on [**2159-4-19**] for further management.  Urine tox came
back positive for cocaine.  This result was discussed with
patient and she adamantly denied any cocaine use and refused
any drug counseling and refused to speak with our social
worker.

2.  Renal failure.  The patient's creatinine was at baseline
during her hospital stay.  She was continued on Nephrocaps,
continued on iron.  She was given Tums for her high
phosphorus.

3.  Abdominal pain.  As described above, the patient
complained of abdominal pain that began roughly three to four
days prior to admission associated with nausea, vomiting.
This was presumed to be gastroenteritis.  Patient did have a
KUB with her history of small bowel resectio