Admission Date:  [**2185-3-11**]       Discharge Date:  [**2185-3-20**]

Date of Birth:   [**2109-8-31**]       Sex:  M

Service:  C-MED

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 35787**] is a 75-year-old
gentleman with a past medical history of aortic valve
replacement in [**2181**] (for aortic stenosis) complicated by
culture-negative endocarditis in [**2183**] (requiring a redo
aortic valve replacement homograft in [**2183**]).

The patient presented to an outside hospital with a 1-week to
2-week history of fatigue and occasional brief episodes of
shortness of breath.  He denied any associated chest pain and
reported that the shortness of breath was unrelated to
exertion with lasted only a few seconds and improved when he
took a few deep breaths.

The patient also notes that his family has commented on his
decreased appetite for the last two days; although, he feels
that his appetite and oral intake have not significantly
changed.  He describes occasional orthopnea.  No paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea.  Occasional ankle swelling.  No
palpitations.  No lightheadedness or dizziness.

The patient denies fevers, sweats, chills, or weight loss.
He reports a dry nonproductive cough.  He denies hemoptysis.
He denies abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting; although, this
had been noted at the outside hospital.  He denies dysuria or
changes in urinary habits.  No visual changes.  No skin
changes or rashes.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Aortic stenosis; status post porcine valve replacement in
[**2181**].  Aortic valve culture-negative endocarditis in [**2183-8-6**]; status post aortic valve replacement redo.
2.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm; status post repair at
[**Hospital6 1129**] in [**2183-11-6**].
3.  Postural hypotension.
4.  Chronic renal failure (with a baseline of 1.8 to 2.2).
5.  B12 deficiency.
6.  Depression.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Medications at home included
vitamin B12 tablets.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  He lives at home
with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] has three children.  He is retired.  A
former smoker of one pack per day times 20 years; he quit 17
years ago.  He denies ethanol or intravenous drug abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Examination revealed
temperature was 96.9, heart rate was 76, blood pressure was
130/62 left and 130/60 right, oxygen saturation was 97% on
room air, and respiratory rate was 24.  In general, the
patient appeared mildly short of breath; otherwise
comfortable.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed mild conjunctival pallor.  Sclerae were anicteric.
Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.  No conjunctival hemorrhages.  Mucous
membranes were moist.  No oral lesions.  The neck was supple
with marked jugular venous distention to the angle of the
jaw.  Heart was regular in rate and rhythm.  Normal first
heart sounds and second heart sounds.  A [**2-8**] diastolic murmur
at the aortic area; a 2/4 systolic ejection murmur at the
apex.  Lung examination revealed thin bibasilar crackles.  No
wheezing.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.
No hepatosplenomegaly.  Normal active bowel sounds.  No
clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  No stigmata of endocarditis.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission from the outside hospital revealed hematocrit was
32.7, white blood cell count was 4.5, platelet count was 120,
and mean cell volume was 85.1.  Differential on the white
count revealed 62 polys, 23 lymphocytes, 11 monocytes, and
1.7 eosinophils.  Iron was 36, total iron-binding capacity
was 274, B12 was 909.  Chemistry was significant for a
creatinine of 1.8.  AST was 26, ALT was 55, alkaline
phosphatase was 280.  Glutamyltransferase was 159.  Total
bilirubin was 1.3.  Amylase was 46 and lipase was 32.
Albumin was 3.9.  Total protein was 7.2.  Thyroid-stimulating
hormone was 2.89.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Imaging from the outside
hospital with abdominal ultrasound on [**2185-3-11**] (status
post abdominal aortic aneurysm repair) with patent bifurcated
graft, maximal diameter of the aneurysmal sac was 4.5 cm
(which was decreased when compared with the prior study from
[**2183-9-19**]).  No large periaortic collection visible.

Echocardiogram on [**2185-3-11**] revealed preserved left
ventricular function, new 3+ aortic insufficiency, new 3+
mitral regurgitation; old 4+ tricuspid regurgitation with
elevated pulmonary artery systolic pressure at 80 mmHg.

A chest x-ray on [**2185-3-10**] revealed no infiltrates or
edema.  Small bilateral pleural effusions, cardiomegaly,
dual-chamber pacing wires and sternotomy wires in place and
unchanged.

IMPRESSION:  This is a 75-year-old gentleman with a history
of aortic valve replacement times two with a history of
culture-negative endocarditis; now with new 3+ aortic
insufficiency compared to a prior echocardiogram.  Given
history, his presentation was worrisome for endocarditis;
although, he denied any infectious-type symptoms and per
outside hospital records was afebrile and all blood cultures
were negative.  However, this is not surprising in light of
the patient's culture-negative endocarditis in [**2183**].

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  NEW 3+ AORTIC INSUFFICIENCY:  The patient appeared
euvolemic on admission and throughout his hospital course
without evidence of heart failure.

Therefore, for his aortic insufficiency, he was not actively
diuresed, but he was placed on afterload reduction.
Initially, the patient was placed on an ACE inhibitor.  He
was given captopril which was titrated up to 37.5 mg t.i.d.
which he tolerated well (from a blood pressure standpoint).

However, by [**2185-3-14**], his creatinine had gone from 1.8
on admission to 2.  On [**3-15**], his creatinine was 2.3.
Therefore, it was decided on [**2185-3-14**] to stop the
captopril for fear of worsening renal function and to
substitute this with hydralazine 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. for
afterload reduction.

To further evaluate the patient's aortic valve, a
transesophageal echocardiogram was performed.  The
transesophageal echocardiogram was performed on [**2185-3-14**] and showed an left ventricular ejection fraction of 40%
to 45%.  The left atrium was said to be mildly dilated.  The
right atrium was normal in size.  The left ventricular wall
thickness and cavity size were normal.  Overall left
ventricular systolic function was mildly depressed.  The
right ventricular wall thickness was normal.  The right
ventricular chamber was markedly dilated with severe global
right ventricular free wall hypokinesis and abnormal septal
motion/position.  The aortic valve was said to have a small
vegetation.  No aortic valve abscess was seen.
Moderate-to-severe 3+ aortic regurgitation.  Motion of the
aortic prosthesis leaflets and poppet were abnormal.  The
mitral valve leaflets were severely thickened and deformed.
There was said to be a probable vegetation on the mitral
valve with 1+ mitral regurgitation.  The tricuspid valve
leaflets were mildly thickened.  No mass or vegetation.
Tricuspid regurgitation of 3+.  The pulmonic valve was
normal.  No pericardial effusion.

After these results returned, it was decided to consult the
Infectious Disease Service to help with management.  Since
admission, the patient had not been placed on intravenous
antibiotics as he was afebrile with no growth from any blood
cultures.

The Infectious Disease Service was consulted on the day of
the transesophageal echocardiogram results.  Their impression
was that the patient could be infected with an indulin
infection causing culture-negative endocarditis such as
Brucella, or Q fever, histoplasmosis, Whipple's disease, or
one of the hacek organisms.

They agreed that the patient should not be placed on
antibiotics, and that instead they would not place the
patient on antibiotics until just prior to his aortic valve
repair by Cardiothoracic Surgery.

They suggested the following serologies be checked:
(1) Bartonella antibody; (2) Lyme serologies; (3) rapid
plasma reagin; (4)  mycoplasma hominis antibody, (5)
Chlamydia psittaci antibody; (6) Brucella abortus antibody;
and (7) C