Admission Date:  [**2172-10-3**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2113-1-3**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOLOGY

The patient's date of discharge is pending; likely
[**2172-10-17**].

CHIEF COMPLAINT:   Cardiac arrest.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 57 year old
male with a known history of coronary artery disease status
post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty
approximately a year and a half prior to admission with stent
placement to the left ramus, who presented as a transfer from
an outside hospital after a witnessed cardiac arrest at the
beach.  Of note, the patient has a history of hitting his
head on a seawall prior to the event where he collapsed.  The
patient collapsed and went into ventricular fibrillation
arrest on the beach, and was subsequently shocked six times
and received 30 minutes of CPR resuscitation by a bystander.
The patient was sent to [**Hospital3 3583**] where he was in
electrical mechanical dissociation at 20 beats per minute,
given epinephrine, Atropine and Lidocaine 100 mg intravenous
bolus and 2 mg intravenous drip, where his heart rate then
returned to 100 to 110, and the patient became hypertensive.

At this point, the patient was intubated.  EKG showed a right
bundle branch block and left anterior fascicular block, deep
ST segment depressions in V2 through V4 suggestive of an
anterior septal myocardial infarction.  There is no
comparison EKG available.  The patient was given a heparin
intravenous bolus and no 2B 3A inhibitor secondary to the
history of head trauma.  The patient was sent to the [**Hospital1 1444**] for urgent catheterization.

Initial arterial blood gas upon arrival at the [**Hospital1 346**] was 7.16, 48, 76, and the patient
had a lactate of 4.5.  The patient had coffee ground on NG
lavage which was guaiac negative.

Upon catheterization, it was found that the patient had a
large patent foramen ovale with no left to right shunting.
He received three ampules of bicarbonate for worsening
acidosis.  His anatomy showed aneurysmal left main and left
anterior descending.  His wedge pressure was elevated at 24.
An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed, which was
complicated by a left groin bleed.  The left anterior
descending artery was stented.

During the procedure, the patient received Lasix, three
ampules of bicarbonate and was on a Nitroglycerin drip.
Subsequent to stenting, the patient coded for electrical
mechanical dissociation and severely dropped his blood
pressure.  The patient's status was reversed with Atropine,
Dopamine, transdermal epinephrine and aggressive chest
compressions.  He was sent up to the Cardiac Care Unit on an
IABP and pressors.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post catheterization in
[**2170**] with stent to the left ramus.
2.  Ulcerative colitis, for which he sees Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 96511**].
3.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease times 15 years.
4.  Recent prostatitis for which he was on a course of
Ciprofloxacin.

MEDICATIONS UPON ADMISSION:
1.  Atenolol.
2.  Zestril 10.
3.  Aspirin 81 mg.
4.  Pentasa.
5.  Sublingual Nitroglycerin as needed for chest pain.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  He lived in [**Location 745**].
He has four children and seven grandchildren.  He is a real
estate [**Doctor Last Name 360**].  He has a 20 pack year history of tobacco and
quit approximately 20 years ago.  The patient drinks a few
drinks per week of alcohol.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's father died at age 66 of an
myocardial infarction.  The patient has two brothers with
heart problems.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Upon admission, vital signs with
temperature of 96.2 F.; heart rate of 150 to 160; blood
pressure of 80 to 100/50 to 60.  Intakes and outputs were
1500/300 in three hours.  Upon arrival to the Cardiac Care
Unit, his vent setting is controlled total volume of 800,
respiratory rate of 24, PEEP of 14, 100% FIO2, saturating at
99 to 100% on these setting.  Arterial blood gas 7.23, 49,
and 114.  Swan revealed right atrial pressures of 41, right
ventricle pressure of 40, PA pressure of 38/19; wedge
pressure of 24.  Cardiac index of 2.56 which decreased to
1.3.  Generally, the patient is an ill-appearing gentleman
who was paralyzed and sedated.  HEENT examination:  Pupils
were small and minimally responsive to light.  NG tube was in
place.  ET tube was in place.  Neck examination:  Unable to
assess secondary to his cervical collar.  Cardiovascular
examination:  Increased rate, normal sounding S1, S2.  No
murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Lung examination upon anterior and
lateral auscultation, there were coarse breath sounds
diffusely with no wheezing.  Abdominal examination,
protuberant abdomen, soft, nontender, nondistended.
Extremities:  He had Doppler-able dorsalis pedis pulses
bilaterally with cold extremities.  No peripheral edema.
Groin clamp was in place over the left groin.  Positive 1 cm
hematoma.  Arterial venous sheath in place in the right groin
with bleeding surrounding it.  Neurologically, the patient
was paralyzed and sedated.

LABORATORY:  Upon admission to the [**Hospital1 190**] were white blood cell count of 9.9, hematocrit
of 50.5, platelets of 290.  Sodium 142, potassium 3.7,
chloride 106, bicarbonate 19, BUN 22, creatinine 1.1, glucose
of 210.  PT of 14, INR of 1.4, PTT of 36.1.

CK, initial set 129, second set 666, troponin initial set
less than 0.2, second set 38.0.

Chest x-ray revealed a questionable adult respiratory
distress syndrome versus congestive heart failure.  Head CT
scan was negative for an intracranial bleed.  Report from the
Cardiac catheterization revealed large PFO aneurysmal left
main, left anterior descending notable for a long 80% lesion,
with a focal 90% lesion at the distal portion of the mid -
left anterior descending.  The ramus with stent which was
occluded.  The left circumflex artery was clear.  The right
coronary artery was large with minor irregularities.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Briefly, the patient is a 57 year old
gentleman with a history of coronary artery disease status
post stent placement in [**2170**], who presented following
ventricular fibrillation arrest and prolonged resuscitation
with EKG changes suggestive of an anterior septal myocardial
infarction in the setting of increased troponin.  The patient
is status post an urgent catheterization with stent to the
left anterior descending and transfer to the Cardiac Care
Unit in cardiogenic shock with intra-aortic balloon pump in
place.
1.  Cardiovascular:  A) Coronary artery disease:  The patient
has a history of coronary artery disease status post stent to
the left ramus in [**2170**], now with EKG and enzymes suggestive
of anterior septal myocardial infarction with stent placement
to the left anterior descending.  Cardiac enzymes were cycled
and initial CK was 129.  CPK reached a peak at midnight on
[**10-5**] at 4,087 and the MB peaked on [**10-4**] at 77.

The patient was treated with aspirin 325 mg, Plavix 75 mg;
Lipitor 10 mg.  During his hospital stay, Imdur was added on
[**10-9**].

B)  The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was complicated by
cardiogenic shock requiring pressors in the Cardiac Care
Unit, which were ultimately weaned off within the first two
days of hospitalization and intra-aortic balloon pump was
also discontinued.

The patient had an echocardiogram on [**10-6**], which
revealed an ejection fraction of 20 to 30%.  His course was
complicated by episodes of hypertension particularly during
the time while we were attempting to extubate the patient.
Pressures increased up to 230/110 transiently, which were
reversed with Lopressor.  The patient was on a regimen of
high dose Lopressor and Captopril during his stay which was
switched to once a day dosing of Enalapril 40 and Atenolol
100 a few days prior to discharge.  The patient was also
started on 10 of Norvasc for good blood pressure control.

Upon discharge, the pressures were consistently stable in the
120s to 130.

C)  Rhythm:  The patient is status post ventricular
fibrillation arrest.  He was seen by Electrophysiology
attending who recommended defibrillator placement.  He had an
abnormal