Admission Date: [**2128-11-24**]       Discharge Date: [**2128-11-29**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 80 year-old
male with coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass graft, abnormal stress test on [**2128-11-3**] with
moderate to severe partially reversible inferior wall defect
who presents with a low grade temperature a few days prior to
admission subsequently developing a nonproductive cough.  On
the day of admission he became increasingly short of breath.
He denies any chest pain.  No nausea, vomiting or
diaphoresis.  The patient was having difficulty sleeping
secondary to his cough and shortness of breath.  In the
Emergency Department the patient had an oxygen saturation in
the 70s in room air and was tachypneic with a respiratory
rate in the 40s to 50s.  Levofloxacin and Flagyl were
administered for possible pneumonia.  The patient also
received nebulizer treatment of supplemental O2 with an
increase in his O2 sats to the 98 to 100% range and decrease
in respiratory rate to the 30s.  According to the patient's
son the patient has had problems with dysphagia and
difficulties related to eating.  He occasional self induces
vomiting to relieve himself.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease status
post coronary artery bypass graft in [**2126**], moderate to severe
inferior wall defect partially reversible, ejection fraction
60%, status post two myocardial infarctions in the past.  2.
Peripheral vascular disease status post fem fem bypass.  3.
Cardiac arrest status post coronary artery bypass graft on
Amiodarone.  4.  Hypothyroidism.  No history of diabetes or
hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Plavix, Levoxyl, Prozac,
Lipitor, Coumadin, Lasix, Spironolactone, Protonix,
Metoprolol, Amiodarone.

ALLERGIES:  Fruit.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 99.2.  Heart
rate 60.  Blood pressure 110/80.  O2 sat 70% on room air,
100% on nonrebreather.  In general alert, sitting up in bed
tachypneic patient.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to
light.  No JVP.  Rales half way up bilaterally in lungs.
Cardiac examination regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and
S2.  Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities +1
pitting edema in both ankles.  Distal motor strength grossly
intact in the upper and lower extremities.

LABORATORY:  Arterial blood gases on nonrebreather was pH of
7.47, PCO2 34, PO2 67, sodium 136, potassium 6.3 hemolyzed.
Chloride 104, bicarb 23, BUN 26, creatinine 1.1, glucose 122.
White count 18.5, hemoglobin 10.5, hematocrit 31.4, platelets
487, PT 13.1, PTT 25.6, INR 1.2.  Urinalysis positive for
nitrites, 3+ protein, many bacteria.  CK 56, troponin less
then 0.3.  Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm rate in the
60s, left atrial abnormality, left axis deviation.  No
ischemic ST T wave changes.  Chest x-ray showed pulmonary
congestion, bilateral alveolar infiltrates predominantly in
the bases.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the MICU given
his guarded respiratory condition.  For several days he
continued to be tachypneic and was maintained either on
nonrebreather or biPAP machine.  He ultimately needed to be
intubated given a decompensating respiratory status.  He was
maintained on an antibiotic course of Levofloxacin and
Ceftriaxone for pneumonia.  His cardiovascular status also
continued to decline.  He ultimately needed pressors in order
to maintain a mean arteriole pressure above a goal of 60 on
[**2128-11-29**].  He was on a total of three pressors, Levo
at 10.6, neo at 140 and Vasopressin at .02.  During morning
rounds the patient continued to decompensate on this day and
all three pressors were at their maximum doses and the
patient continued to become hypotensive despite this therapy.
The patient's family was spoken to by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 2146**].  The
family agreed to discontinue the pressors as well as
ventilatory support and the patient passed away soon
afterwards.






                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3795**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 32927**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2129-2-14**]  10:07
T:  [**2129-2-14**]  14:24
JOB#:  [**Job Number 36000**]
