Admission Date:  [**2103-7-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2103-8-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2029-3-5**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 71 year old
male with a history of hypertension, coronary vascular
disease who presented from the Operating Room with
bradycardia.  The patient states he has been feeling weak and
tired since he was started on Metoprolol in [**2103-1-19**].
He is scheduled to have surgery for a urinary bladder
incontinence on the day of admission.  Intraoperatively, he
had a small dose of Fentanyl.  His heartrate went down to 8
beats/minute.  He received Atropine with heartrate going back
to low 30s.  He was hemodynamically stable and transferred to
the Emergency Department for further evaluation.  The patient
states his symptoms began five to six months ago.  He reports
some fatigue, lower extremity edema, no paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea,
chest pain, shortness of breath or dyspnea on exertion.  His
preoperative electrocardiogram was done on [**2103-7-17**] and
showed junctional bradycardia, rate of 50.  On the morning
off admission he felt more tired and dizzy.  He asked his
wife to drive to the hospital.  In the Emergency Room
multiple short runs of atrial tachycardia with pauses of
junctional bradycardia were noted on Telemetry.  The patient
reported having dizziness times one during the eight second
pause.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for prostate cancer,
status post radical prostatectomy in [**2097**], colon resection,
transient ischemic attack, hypertension, appendectomy and
urinary incontinence.

ALLERGIES:  He has no allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Outpatient medications of Lipitor,
Aspirin, Plavix, Lopressor, Oxybutynin, Prednisone Forte and
Ultram.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives in [**Doctor Last Name 792**]with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **]
reports heavy ethanol use three years ago and denies smoking
tobacco.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission
revealed temperature 98.6, heartrate 58, blood pressure
112/77, respirations 18, oxygen saturation 99%, 2 liters of
nasal cannula.  General, pleasant elderly male in no acute
distress, alert and oriented times three.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat, extraocular movements intact.  Oropharynx
clear.  Pupils equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation bilaterally.  Neck is full with palpable
thyroid with jugulovenous distension 9 to 11 cm.  Pulmonary
is clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular,
regular rhythm and rate.  No murmurs.  Persistent S2.
Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel
sounds.  No organomegaly.  Extremities, trace edema of the
lower extremities bilaterally, 2+ pulses in all four
extremities.  Neurologic examination is nonfocal.

LABORATORY DATA:  White cell count 4.0, hematocrit 36.8,
platelets 110, sodium 146, potassium 4.3, chloride 109, pCO2
27, BUN 20, creatinine 1.0, glucose 87, creatinine kinase
224, troponin less than 0.3, MB 3.  Chest x-ray showed mild
congestive heart failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Interventional physiology, electrocardiac
physiology was consulted and saw the patient in the Emergency
Department.  She was diagnosed with sinus node dysfunction,
paroxysmal, nonsustained, atrial tachycardia, atrial
fibrillation and no arteriovenous conduction disease.  He was
transferred to the CCU for observation over night.  The next
morning he was taken to the Electrophysiology Laboratory
where ablation was attempted and temporary pacemaker was
placed.  Urology was consulted the next day and recommended
no surgery during this hospital admission.  Therefore, on
[**8-1**], the patient was taken back to the
Electrophysiology Laboratory and permanent DDD pacemaker was
placed without any complications.  Over night the patient
remained asymptomatic and afebrile.  His pacemaker
interrogation showed all parameters to be stable and his
cardiac function improved.  Cardiac echo was done on [**7-31**] and showed an ejection fraction more than 55% but the left
atrium was moderately dilated.  Left ventricular cavity was
mildly dilated with regional left ventricular wall motion
being normal.  The right atrium was moderately dilated with
right ventricular cavity mildly dilated, aortic valve
leaflets were mildly thickened and trace aortic regurgitation
was seen as well as trivial mitral regurgitation.  There was
also mild pulmonary artery systolic hypertension.  The
patient remained stable prior to discharge.  His pacemaker
placement site showed no residual hematoma with moderate
ecchymosis extending into the axilla without bleeding or
oozing.  The pressure dressing was removed on [**8-2**] and
the patient was placed on prophylactic antibiotics from
[**8-1**] until discharge, Vancomycin 1 gm q. 12 hours.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  He was discharged to home on his home
medications as well as Keflex 500 mg q.i.d. for six days for
prophylaxis.

FOLLOW UP:  The patient was to schedule his own follow up
appointment with his primary care physician.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Sinus node dysfunction, paroxysmal nonsustained atrial
tachycardia, atrial fibrillation.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient was discharged to home
in good condition on a regular diet.




                            DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) **] 12-222

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2509**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2103-8-2**]  15:35
T:  [**2103-8-2**]  15:48
JOB#:  [**Job Number 40559**]
