Admission Date: [**2102-7-24**]      Discharge Date: [**2102-8-9**]

Date of Birth:  [**2027-3-26**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath and dyspnea on
exertion.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  75 year old female who presented
to the Emergency Room at [**Hospital 1474**] Hospital with a chief
complaint of shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion. The
patient has been having symptoms since Saturday prior to
admission and the patient stated that she had low grade fever
and has been taking Tylenol without any improvement.  The
patient denied any and all chest pain, with the exception of
deep coughing and sensation at that time.  The patient has
had pulling sensation in the left side of her chest and has
been feeling this only when she is coughing.  The patient
denies persistent chest pain and denies any nausea and
vomiting.  She does state that she has been having some
difficulty performing her normal activities of daily living
due to shortness of breath. The patient was diagnosed as
having acute coronary syndrome, based on electrocardiogram
which showed a Q wave with ST segment elevation around leads
2, 3 and AVF.  The patient was then transferred to the [**Hospital1 1444**] for cardiac catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  History of hypertension, congestive
heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung
cancer, seizures; status post hysterectomy; status post
appendectomy;s/p lung lobectomy; status post hernia repair.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Multi-vitamin.
2. Prozac.
3. Aspirin.
4. Verapamil.
5. Tegretol.
6. Albuterol inhaler.
7. Diovan.
8. Doxazosin.


ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  At [**Hospital1 1474**], the patient had a
temperature of 99; heart rate of 98; blood pressure 127/67;
respiration rate of 18; saturating 91 percent.  The patient
had a wheezy sound throughout the bilateral lungs on
examination.  Heart was regular rhythm and sinus.  Abdomen
was soft, nontender, nondistended.  No other major physical
examination findings.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, the patient's white count was
6.8; hematocrit of 31.6 and platelets of 193.  Sodium was
136; potassium of 4; chloride of 102; bicarbonate of 23;
glucose of 100; BUN of 11; creatinine 0.7; calcium was 8.9.
Urinalysis was negative.  CK was 96.  CK MB was 9.7.
Troponin was 6.1.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] cardiology service where the patient
underwent a right coronary artery stent placement.  The
patient underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty of the stent.  Post procedure, the patient went
into cardiogenic shock with 4 plus mitral regurgitation and
the patient underwent placement of an IABP. Because the
patient did not stabiliz was emergently seen by cardiac t
stabilize, she was taken for emergent mitral valve
replacement.  The patient's heart rate was in the 130's and
blood pressure was 90/50 with the intra-aortic balloon pump.
The patient underwent an emergent mitral valve regurgitation
for cardiogenic shock, with low ejection fraction and severe
mitral regurgitation with
rupture of the mitral cords and posterior leaflet
and anterior leaflet.  The patient was then transferred to
the CSRU for close monitoring.

Postoperatively, the patient was stable. The patient had a
bout of atrial fibrillation subsequent to surgery.  On
postoperative day number one, the patient was on epinephrine,
Dobutamine, Levophed and Propofol and Amiodarone for drips
for management of hemodynamics.  The patient remained
afebrile with stable vital signs with cardiac index low at
1.4.  MB of 48.  The patient's saturations were low at 70
percent.  The patient was continued to be intubated on IMV
and the patient was making good urine.  The patient was
weaned off the oxygen and the patient was continued to be
n.p.o. until extubation.

On postoperative day number one, the patient was weaned off
of epinephrine, Dobutamine and Levophed and atrial
fibrillation was converted.  The intra-aortic balloon pump
was removed.  The patient remained afebrile with junctional
heart rate at 60; otherwise, the patient had good gas and
good urine output.  The patient  was weaned from the
epinephrine and the patient was doing well.

On postoperative day number three, the patient continued to
be intubated.  On postoperative day number five, the patient
became really tired on C-Pap at 5 and 5.  The patient's
pressure peep was increased to 15.  The patient remained
afebrile with stable vital signs, making good urine.  The
patient had a chest x-ray which showed some effusion on the
right.  The patient was weaned slowly off the ventilator and
aspirin and Lasix were started.  On postoperative day number
seven, the patient had increase in agitation and anxiety
overnight.  The patient had a stable white count of 11.6 and
was taking in 1600 cc of p.o. and making good urine.  Chest x-
ray was reviewed and the patient was continued on tube feeds.

On postoperative day number eight, the patient had increase
in oxygen requirement on the ventilator and increased
ventilatory support.  The patient had increase in work of
breathing.  The patient had a chest x-ray and the patient's
Lasix was stopped.  On postoperative day number nine, the
patient remained in sinus bradycardia with some aspirin and
Amiodarone.  The patient's temperature maximum was 103.6 and
the patient was pan cultured.  Otherwise, the patient was
doing well.  The patient was continued on Propofol and the
Neo drip was decreased and she was doing well and continued
to be intubated. The patient was also seen by infectious
disease for elevated temperature.  They questioned the
possibility of development of pneumonia and advised treatment
of the patient with Vancomycin.  Overall, the patient was
doing well.

On postoperative day number ten, the patient had the need for
Neo at 1.1, otherwise, the patient was doing well.  She had a
low grade temperature of 100.8.  Otherwise, she remained
afebrile with stable vital signs.  On postoperative day
number 11, the patient was weaned down on the vent and the
patient's Swan was removed and the patient's Neo was stopped.
The patient remained afebrile with stable vital signs.  The
patient had right upper quadrant ultrasound which showed
sludge and slightly distended gallbladder and small wall
thickening.  Otherwise, the patient was saturating well and
was making good urine.

The patient's sputum culture grew out Methicillin resistant
Staphylococcus aureus and the patient was continued on
Vancomycin and the Zosyn was stopped on postoperative day
number 12.  The patient remained afebrile with stable vital
signs and was making good urine.  White count was 17.6. The
patient was weaned from the Lasix; however, the patient
required reintubation.  On postoperative day number 13, the
patient had no major events.  The patient had stable vital
signs and was making good urine.  The patient had Amiodarone
run started and was kept n.p.o. with Foley.  The patient's
chest tube was removed without any difficulty and repeat
chest x-ray showed that there was no pneumothorax.  The
feeding tubes were in good place. The patient underwent
tracheostomy. Please see the procedure note for further
details.  The patient tolerated the tracheostomy without any
difficulty.

On postoperative day number 14, the patient continued to
remain afebrile with stable vital signs and was continued on
Amiodarone and aspirin.  The patient made good urine.  The
patient continued to do well on Percocet and the patient's
tracheostomy collar was weaned.  Otherwise, the patient's
medications were continued. Physical therapy evaluated the
patient and recommended rehabilitation placement for the
patient.  The patient also obtained a PICC line for long term
Vancomycin treatment per recommendations by infectious
disease for approximately 21 days.

The patient did well postoperatively.  The patient was
discharged to the nursing home.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:  Mitral regurgitation.

Cardiogenic shock.

Status post emergent mitral valve replacement.

Congestive heart failure.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty