Admission Date:  [**2200-12-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2200-12-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2146-9-21**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Company 191**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 54-year-old woman with
a past medical history significant for 20 years of low back
pain managed with heavy-dose narcotics at home with several
recent admissions in the past year for hypercarbic
respiratory failure (reportedly, all these episodes have
occurred since she changed her opiate regimen last Spring).
She had a recent admission approximately 10 days ago at an
outside hospital for hypercarbic respiratory failure with
increased troponins at that time.  On that admission, she was
extubated one day after admission and discharged to home.  On
the day of admission she was found to be somnolent by
Emergency Medical Service with a respiratory rate of 8, and a
fingerstick in the 250s.  She was brought to [**Hospital3 **]
where an arterial blood gas showed 7.19/73/32.  She was
intubated with rapid improvement in her arterial blood gas,
but her systolic blood pressure subsequently dropped into the
50s and she was started on a dopamine drip.  She was
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] with her
dopamine drip partially weaned, and her systolic blood
pressure in the 120s.

She was seen in the Emergency Department at [**Hospital1 346**] by the Cardiology consultation
service secondary to her increase in troponin.  Increased
troponins were thought to be secondary to hypotension causing
demand ischemia and a troponin lead.  Her chest x-ray in the
Emergency Department showed bibasilar consolidations.  A CT
angiogram showed bibasilar atelectasis/consolidation with air
bronchograms and numerous mediastinal lymph nodes.  There was
no evidence of pulmonary embolus.  Given the results of the
CT angiogram and the fact that the patient subsequently
spiked to a temperature of 103, she was started on
vancomycin, ceftriaxone, and metronidazole.  Her troponin
came back at 26.2.  She had no acute changes on her
electrocardiogram, but a heparin drip was started due to
concerns of a possible acute coronary syndrome.  She
maintained her blood pressure, overnight on the night after
admission, as the dopamine drip was weaned off.  The dopamine
drip was stopped entirely on the morning after admission.
She remained stable on a mechanical ventilator overnight, and
on the day after admission she was extubated without
difficulty.  While in the Intensive Care Unit, she was seen
by the Pain consultation service who recommended stopping all
of her outpatient pain medications and staring a morphine
patient-controlled analgesia to evaluate her daily opiate
needs prior to starting a new pain control regimen.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   On review of systems in the Intensive
Care Unit she reported cough productive of scant sputum,
though she has always had a chronic cough secondary to
smoking.  Per her report, she was feeling fine at home prior
to admission other than feeling a bit sleepy on the date of
admission.  She went to sleep and was later found
unresponsive.  At home she denied any fevers, chills,
shortness of breath, or chest pain.  The patient and family
adamantly deny that the patient was overusing her narcotics
at home.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2195**], status post myocardial infarction.  [**2200-3-25**] cardiac catheterization showed a patent left internal
mammary artery to left anterior descending artery, and
occluded saphenous vein graft to right coronary artery, a 40%
stenosis in the right internal mammary artery to right
coronary artery, and left ventricular ejection fraction
of 63%, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 26, and
occluded left main coronary artery, a proximally occluded
right coronary artery, 50% mid stenosis of the circumflex,
and a 100% stenosis of the mid left anterior descending
artery.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Chronic low back pain, status post laminectomy times two
in the past.  She is maintained on chronic narcotics at home.
5.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
6.  Question chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
7.  Question liver disease.
8.  Depression.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at home included
Robaxin 750 mg 2 tablets q.4h., [**Doctor Last Name 18928**] 150 mg p.o. q.d.,
oxycodone 5 mg 6 to 8 tablets p.o. q.d., Neurontin 300 mg
p.o. t.i.d., Lipitor 80 mg p.o. q.d., aspirin, Prilosec 20 mg
p.o. q.d., Xanax 1.5 mg p.o. q.i.d., gemfibrozil 600 mg p.o.
q.d., Vioxx 25 mg p.o. q.d., atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d.,
nitroglycerin p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  NITROGLYCERIN causes significant decreased blood
pressure.  She has taken sublingual nitroglycerin in the past
without difficulty.  She is also allergic to TAPE and BEE
STINGS.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives at home with her family.  She has
been on disability for the last 20 years secondary to low
back pain.  She smokes approximately one pack per day for
about a 50-pack-year history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  At the time of the
examination in the Intensive Care Unit she was afebrile. Her
blood pressure and heart rate were stable and within normal
limits, off cardiac medications except for the atenolol.  She
was awake, alert, and pleasant, and cooperative.  She was
interviewed with her daughter and husband in the room.
Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements were intact without nystagmus.  Anicteric.  The
oropharynx was benign.  Neck was supple.  Jugular venous
distention at 14 cm.  Lungs had bibasilar crackles, dullness
to percussion at the bases.  No wheezes, no rhonchi, no
accessory muscles for respiratory were used.  Hear was
regular in rate and rhythm with normal first and second heart
sounds.  There was a fourth heart sound present.  No murmurs
were appreciated.  The abdomen was soft.  There was mild
diffuse tenderness which was not localized.  There was trace
pitting and pretibial edema bilaterally.  Neurologic
examination was nonfocal.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  On the day of
admission white blood cell count was 12.1 (with 79%
neutrophils and 16% lymphocytes), hematocrit of 34.9,
platelets of 196.  Electrolytes were within normal limits.
PT and PTT were within normal limits.  Urinalysis showed no
evidence of infection.  Creatine kinases were 2108, 1708, and
1277.  CK/MB were 49, 31, and 16.  MB index was 2.3, 1.8, and
1.3.  Troponin I was 26.2 and 21.7.  On the day after
admission, white blood cell count was 9.5, hematocrit 30.3,
platelets 188.  Electrolytes were within normal limits.
AST 117, ALT 40, alkaline phosphatase 149, total bilirubin
of 0.6, amylase 149, lipase 27, albumin 2.7.  Calcium 7.7.  A
post extubation arterial blood gas was 7.35/45/93.  Sputum
culture from the date of admission had greater than 25
neutrophils, less than 10 epithelial cells, with 1+ multiple
organisms consistent with oropharyngeal flora.  Blood
cultures times four and urine culture times one showed no
growth.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus
rhythm at 82 beats per minute.  There was a normal axis and
normal intervals.  There were Q waves in leads II, III, and
aVF.  There were no ST depressions or elevations.  There was
a T wave inversion in lead V1.

CT angiogram showed numerous mediastinal lymph nodes, the
largest 1.2 cm in diameter, bibasilar
consolidations/atelectasis, single bulla in the right lower
lobe, some air trapping in the right lower lobe, and
degenerative joint disease of the spine.

A Persantine MIBI in [**2198-12-25**] showed no reversible or
fixed ischemic defects with normal wall motion and an
ejection fraction of 70%.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Following transfer out of the Intensive
Care Unit, Ms. [**Known lastname 18929**] was admitted to the medical floor for
further management of her acute medical issues.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  She was followed by the Cardiology
consul service while in the hospital.  Their opinion was that
the increased troponins were due to demand ischemia and not
supply ischemia.  They recommended increasing the beta
blocker as tolerated.  She was maintained on her aspirin and
Lipitor.  She had no furt