Admission Date:  [**2173-1-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2173-2-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2117-3-1**]       Sex:  M

Service:  HEPATOBILIARY SURGERY-GOLD TEAM

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 55 year old man
who recently had a Whipple done on [**2172-11-4**], after
presenting with three or four years of new onset type 2
diabetes mellitus and painless jaundice.  His hospitalization
course was complicated interoperatively by portal vein
laceration repaired with a Dacron graft, a hematoma which
resulted in the re-exploration and evacuation on [**11-7**],
tracheostomy for prolonged ventilation in SICU.  On
postoperative day ten, the patient had a Dacron graft
infection with Citrobacter treated with Ciprofloxacin 42 days
started on [**2172-11-13**].  The patient was agitated and treated
with Haldol.  He had congestive heart failure in the SICU and
a pulmonary embolism.  He was transferred to rehabilitation
on [**12-17**].

His stay at the Rehabilitation was uncomplicated and he was
discharged to home on [**1-18**].  On [**1-20**], he noticed
a decreased output in his T-tube drain and felt abdominal
pain, epigastric, sharp, constant, worse with p.o. intake.
No radiation to the back or elsewhere.  The patient says he
felt distended, nauseous and vomited.  On Saturday, the
patient complained of fever with chills and went to [**Hospital3 **]
Hospital.  At [**Hospital3 **] Hospital, he was made NPO, given
Unasyn and Gentamycin.  His T-tube was not flushed.  Blood
cultures, urine cultures and labs were sent.  CT scan and KUB
was performed.  He had a fever of 102.6 F.  The patient with
emesis and abdominal pain.  No shortness of breath, chest
pain.  The patient claimed dysuria.  Last bowel movement two
days ago.  No bright red blood per rectum.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
2.  Atrial fibrillation.
3.  Congestive heart failure.
4.  An echocardiogram done on [**12-11**] showed an ejection
    fraction of less than 20 to 25, mitral regurgitation
    murmur of four plus.
5.  Pulmonary embolism.
6.  Pancreatitis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Whipple on [**2172-11-4**].

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1.  Digoxin.
2.  Lopressor.
3.  Coumadin.
4.  Analopril.
5.  Lasix.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was afebrile when arrived
at [**Hospital1 18**]; 99.4 F.; the rest of the vital signs were stable.
He had a T-tube in the right mid-abdomen and a pigtail where
the hematoma was and next to it medially, he had a J-tube in
place and multiple scars from previous operations.  No edema.

LABORATORY:  His white blood cell count was 5.8, hematocrit
39, coagulation studies were normal.  ALT was 232; AST 342,
alkaline phosphatase 1200, total bilirubin 3.7, amylase 30.
The patient had a CT scan done with no extra-hepatic
pathology or intra-hepatic duct dilatation.

Chest x-ray was clear.

KUB showed no air fluid levels.  Blood cultures returned.
Repeat labs in the hospital:  White blood cell count 9.8, INR
was 4.0, ALT 188, AST 108, alkaline phosphatase 1204, total
bilirubin is 3.3, direct bilirubin is 1.3.

Blood cultures were performed which revealed on the T-tube
Pseudomonas aeruginosum, enterococcus.  The drain that was
placed on [**2-3**], showed Pseudomonas aeruginosum.  Blood
cultures since the 17th have all been negative.  Urine
culture was negative on the 13th.  The Pseudomonas
aeruginosum was sensitive to Ceftazidime, Imipenem,
Piperacillin.  Enterococcus was sensitive to Vancomycin,
penicillin, Nafcillin, and resistant to Levo.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was started on Vancomycin,
Ceftriaxone and Flagyl on day of admission.  Flagyl was later
stopped once anaerobic cultures came back negative.  The
patient continued on Ceftazidime at 2 grams intravenously q.
eight and Vancomycin 1.5 grams q. 12 hours.

Hospital course can be described as the preparation for a
further operative procedure as well as intravenous fluids and
intravenous antibiotic usage.  The patient did well
throughout.  The patient had an echocardiogram performed on
[**1-25**], which showed an ejection fraction of 45 to 50
with some global hypokinesis mainly in the distribution of
the left ventricle and physiological mitral regurgitation.  A
stress test was done on the 18th which showed no angina or
ischemic changes.  The Persantine stress test showed an
ejection fraction of 44%, fixed defect in the inferior wall
and inferior base with predominantly reversible defects of
the lateral wall extending into the apex.  There were some
changes in the mitral regurgitation.  This was consistent
with a right coronary artery and left circumflex disease with
global hypokinesis.

Furthermore, the patient had per the Cardiology consultation,
a cardiac catheterization on [**2-4**].  The right main
artery was 100% occluded with good distal collaterals.  The
left main was 50% occluded.  The mid-left anterior descending
was 90%.  There was a stent placed for the mid in the left
descending coronary artery with good results.  The patient
bled around the catheter site after starting Tegrelan which
was discontinued.  Plavix was continued.  The plan in terms
of his cardiac status is to keep Plavix 75 mg p.o. q. day for
30 days up to the day of operation.  The aspirin should be
kept at 325 mg p.o. q. day as well.  His other cardiac
medications include Analopril 5 mg p.o. twice a day;
Lopressor 25 mg p.o. twice a day.

In terms of his anti-coagulation for previous pulmonary
emboli, an IVC filter was placed on [**2-3**] successfully.
Lovenox was discontinued.  As stated before, he is on Plavix
and aspirin.

In terms of his biliary status, the patient had a CT scan
done on the 21st which showed there is a fluid collection
next to the J-tube about 5.7 by 5 cm extending medially and
superiorly to the small bowel with diffuse mesenteric fat
stranding in the bilateral pericolic gutters.  On the 23rd,
there was a CT guided aspiration and a pigtail drain left
behind.  The fluid cultures came back showing Pseudomonas
aeruginosum and Gram negative rods.  At the moment, the fluid
laboratory came back as an amylase of 8, total bilirubin of
4.4, white blood cells [**Pager number **], and red blood cells of 40.

The patient, on [**2-7**], had a hypoglycemic episode down
to 18 and had a tonic-clonic seizure treated immediately with
D50 drip at 10 cc per hour.  The patient recuperated.  A CT
scan of the head was done which was negative.  The patient,
on the 28th, underwent a CT scan of the abdomen which showed
a remarkable decrease in the fluid collection where the drain
was placed, down to the size of 1.5 by 3 cm.  The drain was
removed; there was adequate hemostasis and the patient is
stable, has remained afebrile and in preparation for
discharge to rehabilitation on [**2173-2-9**].

By systems:

1.      The patient was a little depressed during hospital
course and was started on Paxil 20 mg p.o. q. a.m.  No
neurological signs or symptoms.

2.      Cardiopulmonary:  The patient had a low hematocrit
post the cardiac catheterization and was given two units of
red blood cells with improvement.  The patient remained
asymptomatic throughout.  He is on Analopril 5 mg p.o. twice
a day, Lopressor 25 mg p.o. twice a day.

3.      GI:  The patient is on tube feeds, Peptamen at 95 cc
per hour, Colace 100 mg p.o. twice a day; Protonix 40 mg p.o.
q. day.  The T-tube has been draining anywhere between 800 to
1000 cc per day.  Pigtail has decreased to 10 to zero per
day; the drain has been removed.

4.      Genitourinary:  The patient has adequate urine
output.

5.      Infectious Disease:  The patient is on Vancomycin 1.5
grams intravenous q. 24 started on [**2-8**], secondary to
an increasing trough.  The patient will need a peak and
trough dose for a peak and trough on the third dose and
proper changes will be made at Rehabilitation.  Ceftazidine
is given at 2 grams intravenously q. eight hours.

6.      Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  The patient is
Hep-Lock.  Only on Vancomycin and Ceftazidine intravenous per
his PICC line, confirmed in adequate position by x-ray at the
hospital.  The patient can take advanced diet as tolerated;
on tube feeds 95 cc per hour.

7. 