Admission Date:  [**2139-10-6**]     Discharge Date:  [**2139-10-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2093-5-6**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 46-year-old
African-American male patient who is well known to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit team from a recent lengthy
admission, who was discharged the morning prior to this
readmission to [**Hospital6 13846**] facility.  The
patient had been in the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
treatment of multiple medical problems from [**8-28**] to
[**2139-10-6**].  Events during that hospital stay included
treatment for respiratory failure, renal insufficiency of
unclear etiology (dialysis dependent), lower extremity
bilateral elephantiasis and enterococcal bacteremia, herpes
zoster infection, pulmonary hypertension, and upper
gastrointestinal bleed.  The patient was ultimately
stabilized and had a tracheostomy placed on [**9-15**] for
failure to wean from the ventilator.  A PEG tube was also
placed, but the patient was able to take p.o. by the time of
previous discharge.  Of note, the patient also had known
diastolic and right-sided heart failure with an ejection
fraction of greater than 55%, and dilated right ventricle.

According to the Emergency Medical Service records and
report, as well as the Emergency Room Department, and a
written record from [**Hospital3 672**], the patient was
transported to [**Hospital3 672**] on the afternoon of this
admission, was conversant and stable until transferred to
flat bed from ambulance stretcher.  On transfer, the patient
apparently suffered an acute respiratory decompensation, and
Emergency Medical Service staff was unable to ventilate him.
A large mucous plug was subsequently removed from the
tracheostomy insert and respirations were restarted
successfully; although the patient became acutely bradycardic
and a cardiac arrest code was called.  According to the
physician notes, the patient was unresponsive from the time
of the respiratory distress, and the patient was pulseless
when a code was called.  The patient was found to be in
pulseless electrical activity, and cardiopulmonary
resuscitation was begun.  The patient then received
epinephrine times 1 mg and atropine times 1 mg and converted
to ventricular tachycardia which normalized to pulsatile
sinus tachycardia.  An arterial blood gas was done and found
to be 7.107/80/72 on 87% oxygen saturation.  The patient
never regained responsiveness and was noted to have total
left-sided hemiparesis, doll's eyes, and purposeless
right-sided movements.  The patient was immediately
transferred back to [**Hospital1 69**] for
readmission and evaluation.

In the Emergency Room the patient was unresponsive with
arbitrary right-sided arm movements and withdrew to pain on
the right lower extremity only.  There was no sign of verbal
communication or auditory understanding.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Obesity.
 2.  Obstructive sleep apnea.
 3.  Status post tracheostomy.
 4.  Hypertension.
 5.  Pulmonary hypertension.
 6.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
 7.  Cor pulmonale.
 8.  Chronic renal insufficiency, on hemodialysis.
 9.  Lower extremity venous ulcers.
10.  Dilated right ventricle and right heart failure.
11.  Status post upper gastrointestinal bleed.
12.  Lower extremity edema/elephantiasis.
13.  Status post enterococcal bacteremia.
14.  Herpes zoster.
15.  Gastric ulcer.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to KEFLEX and OXACILLIN.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient has a history of cerebrovascular
accidents in his brother and his sister.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a history of remote cocaine
and marijuana.  The patient quit 10 years ago.  The patient
also has a 15-pack-year history of tobacco use.  The patient
is married and lives with his wife previously.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Please see previous Discharge
Summary from [**2139-10-6**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  The patient was afebrile,
pulse of 75, blood pressure of 122/53, respirations of 19,
oxygen saturation 96% on 50% tracheostomy mask.  Generally,
the patient had purposeless movement of the right upper
extremity, in respiratory distress, wide opened injected
sclerae.  HEENT was significant for dry blood in the
oropharynx, tracheostomy was in place and working properly,
bilateral injected sclerae, doll's eyes.  Lungs revealed he
had decreased breath sounds throughout with coarse breath
sounds throughout, with some expiratory wheezes diffusely.
Heart was tachycardic without an murmur, rubs or gallops.
The abdomen was soft, obese, and nontender.  Extremities was
significant for 3 to 4+ pitting edema bilaterally which was
unchanged from previous discharge secondary to elephantiasis.
Neurologically, the patient withdrew to pain only on the
right lower extremity.  Right upper extremity with
purposeless movements.  The patient did not move his left
upper or lower extremity.  Of note, the patient was known to
not be able to move the left shoulder.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  He had a white blood cell
count of 8, hematocrit of 33.4, platelets of 208.  Sodium
of 139, potassium of 4.4, chloride of 103, bicarbonate of 20,
BUN of 44, creatinine of 3.4, glucose of 124.  Calcium
was 8.4, phosphorous 5.2, magnesium 2.  Creatine kinase #1
was 31.  Creatine kinases #2 and #3 were also flat.  Troponin
was negative.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 46-year-old male patient recently
discharged after a prolonged Medical Intensive Care Unit stay
for multiple medical problems; now re-presenting to the
Emergency Room after a respiratory failure and pulseless
electrical activity arrest with cardioversion, and neural
changes consistent with a possible new cerebrovascular
accident.

1.  NEUROLOGY:  The patient's left-sided weakness was likely
secondary to an anoxic brain injury given history of mucous
plug and desaturation.  Throughout this hospital stay the
patient began to regain function in the extremities.  At the
time of discharge, the patient was able to lift the left
lower extremity against gravity and against some resistance;
although, it is still weak compared to the right side.  The
patient had a grasp on the left upper extremity and was able
to minimally move his left upper extremity.  The patient had
no deficits on the right side.

A Neurology consultation was obtained for further evaluation
of this possible stroke.  They also felt that it was
consistent an anoxic brain injury and likely area would
include the right parietal region.  A head CT was obtained
while the patient was in the hospital to further evaluate the
location of possible cerebrovascular accident.  The head CT
was pending at the time of this dictation, and an addendum
will be dictated as soon as the results are known.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient was also being ruled out for
a myocardial infarction on this hospital admission.  Creatine
kinases times three as well as troponin were flat.  The
patient was effectively ruled out.  The patient's blood
pressure was stable throughout and did not require any
additional pressors.

The patient did have some bradycardic episodes during
dialysis which was consistent with his history of bradycardia
during dialysis.  Electrocardiograms obtained at this time
just showed sinus bradycardia.  The patient was asymptomatic
with these bradycardic episodes.  The patient had no acute
changes on the electrocardiogram.  An electrocardiogram
obtained at this hospital was consistent with previous
electrocardiograms.

3.  PULMONARY:  The patient had a tracheostomy in place and
it was functioning well.  The patient was kept on a 50%
tracheostomy mask ventilation assist control.  The tidal
volume was 700, respirations of 12, FIO2 of 50%, and a PEEP
of 5.

The patient's arterial blood gases were done throughout the
hospital stay, and last arterial blood gas was 7.39/40/182
and significantly improved.  The patient will need routine
tracheostomy care and suctioning as needed as the patient had
increased secretions while in the hospital.

4.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  Question of possible
tracheobronchitis given increased secretions.  A chest x-ray
was obtained during this hospital stay which showed possible
congestive heart failure, but no sign