Admission Date:  [**2195-1-4**]       Discharge Date:  [**2195-1-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2117-3-28**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU TEAM

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77 year old female
with past medical history of congestive heart failure and
coronary artery disease, who was in her usual state of health
prior to admission.  On the night she was admitted patient
was having increased chest pain that actually awoke her from
sleep.  She described the pain as [**6-11**], sharp, substernal
pain that radiated down her left arm.  She denied shortness
of breath, nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis or heart
palpitations.  Patient became concerned.  She notified EMS.
EMS gave patient one sublingual nitroglycerin with immediate
improvement in her symptoms.  She was then transferred to
[**Hospital1 69**] emergency room for
further evaluation.  In the emergency room patient was given
an aspirin that she was unable to chew and she ended up
gagging on the aspirin.  Shortly after gagging on the aspirin
patient appeared to have a vagal reaction and actually went
into asystole.  She was given one dose of atropine and her
cardiac rhythm returned to atrial flutter with variable block
patterns.  Patient is a very poor historian and was unable to
give any additional history.  At that time it was discussed
at great length with her son about possible options to
include a temporary pacer.  The son chose not to have any
cardiac intervention done, understanding the risks involved.
He stated that in the past his mother had been offered
procedures that she had refused.  Patient was then admitted
to the CCU for further observation.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She had been complaining of some visual
field defects.  She states "it is like a shade came down over
my right eye."  She was seen by an ophthalmologist for this
complaint who told her that it was likely she had a vascular
event.  In the past she had been offered anticoagulation for
her significant history of a-flutter/a-fib which she had
refused.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, status post
two myocardial infarctions.  Congestive heart failure with an
echo in [**2188**] that showed approximately 20% ejection fraction
with moderate to severe mitral regurgitation and right
ventricle hypokinesis.  She also had ischemic cardiomyopathy.
Meniere disease.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.  Transient
ischemic attacks.  Hyperlipidemia.  Anxiety.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Zestril 10 mg q.d., Lasix 40 mg
q.d., Valium p.r.n., Zaroxolyn p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has an allergy to beta blockers, the
reaction is unclear.  She also has an allergy to barbiturates
and digoxin, again the reactions are unclear.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother passed away from a cerebrovascular
accident.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denied alcohol or smoking.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission sodium was 136, potassium 4.1,
chloride 98, bicarb 27, BUN 21, creatinine 1, glucose 117.
White blood count 6.4, hematocrit 35.7, platelet count 180.
Differential showed 59 neutrophils, 2 basophils, 28
lymphocytes, 6 monocytes, 1 eosinophil.  Coags showed PT of
12.6, PTT 23.3, INR 1.1.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission the patient was afebrile,
heart rate 83 beats per minute and regular, blood pressure
117/77, respiratory rate 16 breaths per minute, O2 sat was
98% on 2 liters.  In general, this was a very frail, elderly
appearing female who was slightly confused, mumbling and was
not coherent.  Mucous membranes were dry.  Pupils were
equally round and reactive to light.  Cranial nerves II-XII
were grossly intact.  Patient was oriented to place and name
only.  Pulmonary exam revealed bibasilar crackles.  She had
decreased respiratory effort.  Abdomen was soft,
nondistended, nontender with positive bowel sounds.  Heart
was regular rate and rhythm with S1, S2 and S3.  Extremities
were without cyanosis, clubbing or edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 77 year old woman with a history
of coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, left
bundle branch block with a-flutter who is not anticoagulated,
status post multiple TIAs.  She presented to the emergency
room with new onset chest pain that radiated down her left
upper extremity.  At the time she was refusing any
intervention.  She was admitted to the CCU for further
observation.

1.  Cardiac.  The patient was admitted and her cardiac
enzymes were followed.  Initial CK was 82 with troponin of
3.0.  Second CK was 458, MB 88, troponin 34.3.  Shortly after
receiving these results, patient became bradycardiac down
into the 20s to 30s.  After emergent discussion with her son,
the decision was made to place a temporary pacemaker.  Dr.
[**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] discussed the severity of the patient's
situation and her slow ventricular escape rate of
approximately 20 and the son agreed to have the placement
despite her previous wishes not to have this done.  The son
stated that she was scared of the procedure, but that she
wanted to live and that she was just not thinking clearly at
the time she presented to the emergency room.  During
placement of the temporary pacemaker, patient went into
ventricular fibrillation arrest for which she received
defibrillation shocks and then patient when into asystole for
which patient was then emergently intubated.  Atropine was
administered and a temporary pacemaker was placed.  She
returned to a paced rhythm of approximately 80 beats per
minute.  An emergent echo was performed at bedside which
showed severe global left ventricular and right ventricular
hypokinesis.  There was no pericardial effusion noted.  On
the third day of admission, patient was taken to the
electrophysiology lab and a biventricular lead pacer was
placed.  Patient had the pacer placed at 80 beats per minute.
She was successfully extubated.  Following extubation she
complained of some chest pain around the incision site at
which time the pacer configuration was changed to pace at
about 70 beats per minute.  Pacer was performing well until
the fifth day of hospital admission at which point she went
into v-tach/v-fib cardiac arrest.  Patient was quickly
defibrillated and intubated for airway protection.  After a
lengthy discussion with her son, it was determined that
patient would go to the cardiac cath lab.  Cardiac cath
revealed a 99% lesion in the LAD which was successfully
stented.  Patient was then transferred back to the CCU for
further management.  For her coronary artery disease she was
placed on aspirin 325 mg q.d., Plavix 75 mg q.d. for 30 days,
low dose beta blocker and statin.  Her ACE inhibitor was
being held until her creatinine returned to approximately
1.5.  For her congestive heart failure patient was placed on
low dose beta blocker.  She received Lasix to relieve her
pulmonary symptoms.  For her rhythm she received a
biventricular lead pacer for which she will follow up with EP
for further management.

2.  Pulmonary.  The patient was intubated on two occasions
for airway protection.  She was easily liberated from the
ventilator on both occasions without complications.

3.  Renal.  The patient presented to the emergency room with
creatinine of 1.0.  Following her cardiac arrest and the dye
load, patient went into acute renal failure with creatinine
of 2.4.  All nonsteroidals and ACE inhibitors were held.
Patient's creatinine gradually improved over her course of
stay.  Patient should have an ACE inhibitor added to her
regimen once her creatinine returns to approximately 1.5.

4.  ID.  The patient was placed on vancomycin following
placement of the biventricular pacer.  Her cultures remained
negative throughout her stay.

5.  Hematology/oncology.  The patient is anemic at baseline.
During her stay she received 2 units of packed red blood
cells.  It appeared that she had a minor reaction following
the transfusion with a temperature of approximately 101.

6.  Endocrine.  The patient had elevated blood sugars,
approximately 150 to 200, during her stay.  When discussed
with patient, she stated she is not a diabetic and refused
further blood sugars along with any additional insulin or
hypoglycemics.  This issue should be addressed at some point