Admission Date:  [**2191-6-18**]       Discharge Date:  [**2191-7-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2121-8-17**]       Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 69-year-old
female who presented on [**6-17**] with generalized abdominal pain
of two weeks duration.  The pain was localized to the left
lower quadrant and left upper quadrant.  The patient also had
nausea and vomiting times one prior to admission, increased
abdominal girth with increased shortness of breath.  The
patient denied any fevers or any chills, any change in bowel
movement.  The patient was initially seen and diagnosed with
a diverticulitis.  A CT revealed possible perforation with
abscess.  The patient was admitted to surgery initially and
placed on NPO and antibiotic therapy.  The patient initially
started on Ceftriaxone, Flagyl but when an IV was unable to
be obtained the patient was switched to po antibiotics, this
time on Levofloxacin and Flagyl.  These antibiotics were
started on [**6-23**].  The patient subsequently developed worsening
urine output and was transferred to the SICU for better fluid
management.  A Swan Ganz catheter was floated in the SICU and
patient received aggressive diuresis and aggressive fluid
monitoring.  The patient recovered from symptoms of sepsis
and a repeat abdominal CT revealed a decrease in the size of
the abscess and a small fluid collection that was not deemed
drainable.  The patient improved while in the SICU and was
transferred out and then transferred to the Acove Medicine
Service for further medical management and placement issues.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Degenerative joint disease, status
post left total knee replacement in [**2185**], hypertension,
status post childhood head injury with residual cognitive
deficits and right side weakness.  Chronic renal
insufficiency.  Anemia.  GERD.  Congestive heart failure.
Hypothyroid.  Status post appendectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Tylenol prn, Hydralazine 10 mg po
qid, Lopressor 50 mg po bid, Flagyl 500 mg po tid,
Levofloxacin 500 mg po q day, Morphine 2 mg subcutaneously q
4 hours prn, Ampicillin 2 gm IV q 6 hours.

ALLERGIES:  Biaxin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in a residence for
elderly, homeless women.  The patient has a good resident
contact, [**Name (NI) 6480**] [**Name (NI) 11907**] [**Telephone/Fax (1) 11908**] who knows the patient
very well.  The patient denies any smoking or alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On transfer, temperature 97.5, pulse
84, respirations 24, blood pressure 140/90, O2 sat 92% on
room air, 99% on two liters.  Generally the patient is alert
and oriented, resting, mild shortness of breath, in no
apparent distress.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to
light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Normocephalic,
atraumatic.  Mucus membranes moist.  Oropharynx clear, no
evidence of thrush.  Neck supple with 2+ carotids without any
bruits, no JVD, no lymphadenopathy, no thyromegaly.  Chest
was significant for bibasilar crackles and decreased breath
sounds throughout.  Cardiac was regular, normal S1 and S2
without any murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen was soft with
normal bowel sounds, non distended.  Patient has had mild
tenderness in the left lower quadrant without any rebound or
guarding.  Extremities without any clubbing or cyanosis.  The
patient had 1+ lower extremity edema bilaterally and 1+ non
pitting edema of the right wrist.  Neuro exam, patient was
alert and oriented, cranial nerves II through XII intact,
strength 4/5 and symmetric, reflexes [**12-25**]+ at the biceps and
brachioradialis and symmetric.  Lower extremity reflexes were
not tested given presence of compression boots.  Patient's
sensation was grossly intact.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  History of diverticulitis, status post transfer from
surgery.  The patient was diagnosed with diverticulitis via
CT on admission.  The patient was treated medically with
antibiotics, Levofloxacin, Flagyl, Ampicillin.  The patient
will likely need a full four week course of antibiotics for
prevention of worsening diverticulitis.  The patient has
subsequently improved symptomatically and will likely not
need surgical intervention.  The patient was initially npo
but has since been advanced to a full diet.  At time of
discharge the patient is tolerating full diet.  The patient
was also placed on Colace and Senna for possible question of
ileus vs constipation.  The patient has been having regular
bowel movements since bowel regimen was added.

2.  The patient has a history of congestive heart failure.
During the course of the hospital stay the patient was
continued on Lopressor 50 mg po bid.  Hydralazine was
discontinued and the patient was initially started on
Captopril at 6.25 mg po tid.  The patient's blood pressure
and pulse has been tolerating and Captopril has been titrated
up and is currently at 25 mg po tid with a target max of 50
mg po tid.

3.  History of chronic renal insufficiency.  The patient has
a baseline creatinine of 1.7 and 1.9.  The patient's
creatinine while hospitalized was significantly below that at
1.1 to 1.4.  With the recent addition of the ACE inhibitor
and increasing of the dosages it is important to continue to
monitor the creatinine on an outpatient basis.

4.  History of anemia.  The patient is guaiac negative.  The
patient's hematocrit was stable throughout the hospital stay
and stable at the time of discharge.

5.  Physical therapy.  The patient received a physical
therapy consult who found the patient to be extremely weak
and necessitated max assist to chair.  Weakness likely
secondary to deconditioning since patient has been in the
hospital for 18 days.  The patient was recommended to go to a
subacute rehab facility prior to returning to home.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient is stable at time of
discharge.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient will be discharged to a
subacute rehab facility for further rehab work-up secondary
to deconditioning while in the hospital.  The patient will
eventually likely be able to return back to her resident
facility.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Diverticulitis with possible perforation.




                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4236**]

Dictated By:[**First Name (STitle) 11909**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2191-7-6**]  15:53
T:  [**2191-7-6**]  18:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 11910**]
