Admission Date:  [**2186-1-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2186-2-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2143-8-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA SX

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 42-year-old male
who was involved in a high speed roll over motor vehicle
crash.  There was a question of whether the patient was
restrained.  On the scene he was combative and was intubated
by the EMTs.  He had obvious open left femur fracture, but
remained hemodynamically stable in the field and on arrival
to the emergency room at the [**Hospital1 188**].  On arrival, pulse was 98, blood pressure 108/palp.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Low back pain.
2.  Anxiety.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Unknown.

MEDICATIONS:  Unknown.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient has a wife and sister who are able
to converse with physicians in the emergency room.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient's heart rate was 88, blood
pressure 108/palp, 99% saturation and patient was getting bag
valve mask ventilated.  GCS was 3T.  There was a left orbital
ecchymosis.  Left pupils are irregular and unresponsive.  The
right pupil was 3 mm to 2 mm reactive.  There was no
instability of the face.  There was nasal blood bilaterally.
The left TM was clear.  The right TM is obscured by blood.
Patient's neck was in C collar.  Trachea is midline with no
crepitus.  Chest was stable.  Chest sounds were clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  There were no deformities.  Heart
was regular.  Abdomen was nondistended and soft.  Rectal is
guaiac negative with normal tone.  Pelvis was stable.  Back
had no stepoff or deformities.  There is a left femur with
obvious open fracture distal thigh.  ABI was 130/110 with
palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial artery pulse.
Right had no deformities with palpable distal pulses.  Left
forearm lacerations were present.

Venous blood gas immediately upon entering the Emergency
Trauma Bay was 7.14, 28, 67, 24 minus 8.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  White count 17.8, hematocrit
35, platelets of 277.  PT 13.1, PTT 21.6, INR 1.1.  Sodium
141, potassium 3.6, chloride 104, bicarbonate 18, BUN 12,
creatinine 0.9, glucose 235.  Calcium 1.05, lactate 4.3,
fibrinogen 186, amylase 219.  Urinalysis had large amounts of
blood.  Tox screen showed ETOH of 252.

RADIOGRAPHIC STUDIES:  Chest x-ray was significant for a
question of a widen mediastinum with good position of the ET
tube.  Pelvis was normal.

Head CT Scan was significant for a large acute subdural
hematoma with mass effect and shift to the right, extensive
fascial fractures with pneumocephalus.  The facial fractures
included the lateral and superior portion of the left orbit,
multiple fractures of the ethmoid ..............., small bony
chip in close proximity to the left optic nerve, fracture of
the left orbital floor and multiple fractures of the left
maxillary sinuses.

CT Scan of the C spine showed no evidence of acute fracture
or dislocation.

CTA of the chest showed no aortic injury, but did show
bilateral pulmonary contusion.

CT Scan of the abdomen showed no intraabdominal injuries, or
free fluid, or free air.

Left femur film showed fracture of the mid distal third of
the femur which was a compound fracture.

Films of the left upper extremity was negative.

Film of the right hand showed a markedly comminuted spiral
fracture of the proximal phalanx of the right second finger.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient after resuscitation and evaluation
in the Trauma Bay was taken to the Operating Room for
emergent craniotomy and evacuation of left epidural hematoma.
During the same procedure, Orthopedics performed and I&D and
IM rodding of the left femur fracture.  An echocardiogram was
done, transesophageal echo was done intraoperatively which
was normal.  Ophthalmologic consult was obtained.  The
patient underwent lateral ................... for Ophtho.
The patient was then transferred to the Trauma Intensive Care
Unit for continued resuscitation and close observation.  The
patient remained hemodynamically stable in the Trauma Bay and
in the Operating Room.

In the Intensive Care Unit, the patient was started on
Dilantin for seizure prophylaxis for one week.  He remained
seizure free throughout his hospital course.  ...............
was placed by Neurosurgery during there procedure for ICP
measurements.  This was discontinued on [**2186-1-28**] when patient
remained stable.  He underwent cerebral angiography on [**1-26**]
which demonstrated a left direct carotid cavernous sinus
fistula mid direct inferior maxillary artery, superior
ophthalmic vein fistula which is coiled.  He subsequently
underwent an angiography on [**2-3**] which demonstrated stable
cerebrovasculature.  The patient has otherwise remained
neurologically stable.  Follows commands and moves all four
extremities.

1.  OPHTHALMOLOGY:  Ophthalmology has followed the patient
and has done two retinal examinations.  The patient's exam
has remained stable, though visual acuity has not been tested
secondary to patient's altered mental status, but will be
followed as an outpatient.

2.  RESPIRATORY:  Patient's respiratory status was
significant for remaining intubated for several SICU days
post accident.  The patient had a pulmonary artery
arteriogram which showed a right middle lobe embolus and a
inferior vena cava filter was placed.  On [**2186-1-29**], the
patient had a left chest tube placed for increased effusion
which was discontinued on [**2186-2-1**].  The patient has
been extubated and has had pulmonary status which has been
stable.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient has remained hemodynamically
stable and has required no further interventions.

4.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  Issues included beginning starting
tube feeds via nasogastric tube.  Patient has tolerated the
tube feeds of goal.  Patient received an early swallow study
which he failed secondary to altered mental status.  The
patient will receive a video swallow prior to discharge to
determine p.o. status and will be weaned off of tube feeds as
patient's caloric intake increases.

5.  HEMATOLOGIC:  Significant issues included a transfusion
of three units of packed red blood cells early in his
hospital course.  Patient has not been on anticoagulation
secondary to his cerebral bleed.  Patient has an IVC filter
in place.

6.  ENDOCRINOLOGIC:  Significant issues, patient received a
72 hour course of Solu-Medrol and received insulin drip for
blood glucose control from which he has subsequently been
discontinued and has remained stable.

7.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  Issues have included early course of
Vancomycin and Gentamycin for the open femur fracture which
were discontinued on postoperative day #5.  Later in his
hospital course, the patient developed an increasing white
count and low grade temperatures.  He was found to have right
knee cellulitis and he was started on Kefzol for which he has
completed a seven day course.  Currently his white count is
normalized and he has remained afebrile.

From the injury perspective, patient's femur fracture has
been stable.  He has received follow up imaging which shows a
IM rod in place and will follow up with Orthopedics following
discharge.

8.  SIGNIFICANT EVENTS:  On hospital day #13, the patient
went to the Operating Room with Plastic Surgery where they
performed a zygoma bone open reduction internal fixation and
a right index finger open reduction internal fixation.  The
patient tolerated this procedure well and was sent to the
Vascular Intensive Care Unit for close monitoring.  Following
that surgery, the next day, the patient became agitated and
tachypneic.  His blood gas at that time was 7.42, 38, 12, 62,
25, 99%.  He was given a dose of Lasix.  Chest x-ray showed a
small left effusion, but no evidence of pulmonary edema.

The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for
three days of close monitoring.  He was never reintubated and
he has subsequently been transferred to the floor where he
has remained stable.

Second significant event on hospital day #17, the patient
demonstrated hoarseness of breath.  Oral was consulted and
determined that patient had good medullization of the vocal
cords and suggested a temporal bone CT Scan secondary to
right