Admission Date:  [**2143-12-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2144-1-17**]


Service:  Cardiac Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 82-year-old male with
a history of hypertension and coronary artery disease, who
presented to an outside hospital on [**2143-12-27**] with
complaints of chest pain.  The patient ruled in for a
myocardial infarction with elevated cardiac enzymes.  The
patient was treated with intravenous nitroglycerin and
subsequently signed out against medical advice.  The patient
again developed chest pain on the morning of [**2143-12-31**]
and was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
for treatment.  The patient also complained of shortness of
breath and was found to be in congestive heart failure on
chest x-ray.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Question of congestive heart failure.
3.  Status post permanent pacemaker insertion for a history
of bradycardia.
4.  Status post right eye surgery on [**2143-12-26**].
5.  Status post left carotid endarterectomy in [**2140**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:   Preoperative medications include
aspirin, sublingual nitroglycerin, intravenous heparin,
Lasix, Plavix.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Positive tobacco use, one to two packs per
week.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Initial physical
examination revealed temperature of 96.9, pulse 70 (a regular
rate and rhythm), blood pressure 110/60, respiratory rate 18,
oxygen saturation 99% on room air.  Head, ears, nose, eyes
and throat revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.  Pupils
were 3 mm bilaterally.  Extraocular movements were intact.
Mucous membranes were moist.  Neck was soft, supple, 7-cm
jugular venous distention.  Heart had a regular rate and
rhythm, first heart sound and second heart sound.  No
murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Lungs had bibasilar crackles,
diffuse wheezing.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended, normal active bowel sounds.  Right groin
without bruit or hematoma.  Extremities revealed trace pedal
edema.  Neurologically, awake, alert and oriented times
three.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell
count of 13.2, hematocrit 31.8, platelet count of 246.
Sodium 139, potassium 4, chloride 103, bicarbonate 23, blood
urea nitrogen 37, creatinine 1.4, blood sugar of 135.
ALT 18, AST 35, alkaline phosphatase 75, lipase 110,
amylase 59.  Creatine kinase of 184.  Troponin of 19.4.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly,
bilateral pleural effusions.

Electrocardiogram revealed V-paced rhythm in the 80s, 3-mm to
4-mm ST depressions in leads V5 and V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was taken for cardiac
catheterization on [**2143-12-31**] which showed a left
ventricular ejection fraction of 19%, 100% right coronary
artery occlusion, 90% left anterior descending artery
stenosis, 70% first obtuse marginal, and left ventricular
end-diastolic pressure of 25, and mild mitral regurgitation.
The patient was referred to the Cardiology Surgery Service
for operative intervention.

Late in the evening of [**12-31**] and early morning of
[**1-1**], the patient experienced increasing congestive
heart failure unresponsive to diuretic therapy.  The patient
was again taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory and
an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed for support.  The
patient was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit.

In the Coronary Care Unit, the patient was noted to have a
low cardiac index.  The patient was started on dobutamine to
achieve a cardiac index of greater than 2, and the patient
was taken to the operating room on the morning of [**2144-1-1**] with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] for a coronary artery bypass graft times
three; left internal mammary artery to left anterior
descending artery, saphenous vein graft to posterior
descending artery, saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal.
Please see Operative Note for further details.

The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit on
dobutamine, Levophed, and propofol infusions, in stable
condition.  The patient also had the intra-aortic balloon
pump in place postoperatively.  The patient was weaned and
extubated from mechanical ventilation on his first
postoperative day.  The intra-aortic balloon pump was removed
with good hemostasis achieved.  The patient began developing
agitation and confusion postoperatively.  The patient also
required aggressive pulmonary toilet and nebulizer treatments
for increased sputum production.

On postoperative day one, the patient was continued on
dobutamine and Levophed to maintain adequate cardiac index.
The patient continued to have increasing agitation, and
Haldol was added.  The patient was begun on Levaquin for
increased sputum production; question aspiration.

On postoperative day two, the patient was noted to have a
white blood cell count of 14.4; however, the patient was
afebrile.  On postoperative day two, the patient was still
requiring aggressive pulmonary toilet and nebulizer
treatments, occasionally requiring nasotracheal suctioning.
The patient maintained adequate oxygenation on nasal cannula.

The patient was kept in the Intensive Care Unit for his
agitation and his pulmonary toilet, and his anionotropic
requirement.  His anionotropics were weaned to off by
postoperative day four as well as his Levophed.  The patient
continued to be V-paced by his internal pacemaker; however,
it was noted that upon interrogation of his pacemaker on
postoperative day four, the patient was in atrial
fibrillation.  After discussion with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**], the patient
was started on amiodarone and Lopressor for control of his
atrial fibrillation.  The patient was still requiring Haldol
for his agitation.

The patient was also noted to have hypernatremia with sodium
reaching a high of 153 on postoperative day seven.  The
patient was started on free water for control of the
hypernatremia.  The patient was also started on a heparin
infusion due to his atrial fibrillation.

On postoperative day eight, the patient was seen by Speech
and Swallow with a bedside swallow evaluation.  Clinically,
with signs and symptoms of aspiration.  The patient was kept
n.p.o. and was continued on tube feeds.  The patient's Ativan
was discontinued with thought that Ativan was contributing to
his increasing agitation.  The patient was continued on
Haldol p.r.n. for agitation.

The patient was transferred out of the Intensive Care Unit on
postoperative day nine, still requiring frequency nebulizer
treatments and p.r.n. Haldol for agitation.  The patient was
again seen on [**2144-1-10**] for evaluation by Speech and
Swallow and continued to have signs and symptoms of
aspiration.  Shortly after the patient was transferred to the
floor, the patient was found to be out of bed lying on the
floor.  The patient stated that he was trying to get out of
bed.  The patient was examined by a house officer with no
obvious injury noted.  The patient was restrained, and a
sitter was obtained.  The patient had slowly improving mental
status with less agitation and progressively increased
orientation.

On postoperative day 11, after discussion with Cardiac
Surgery team, it was decided that because of the patient's
significant fall risk the patient would not be anticoagulated
for his risk of atrial fibrillation at this time.  The
patient was noted on the monitor to be in sinus rhythm.  The
patient was continued on amiodarone.

On postoperative day 12, the patient again underwent
evaluation by Speech and Swallow for signs of aspiration.
Clinically, the patient was noted to have signs of aspiration
with administration of p.o.   The patient continued to need
nebulizer treatments around the clock; however, the patient
was progressively improved in coughing and clearing his own
secretions and required less frequency pulmonary toilet.

On [**2144-1-14**], a Gastroenterology consultation was
obtained for percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube
placement as the patient continued to have signs and symptoms
of aspiration.  It was felt that percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy tube placement could be temporary until the
patient had cleared mental status and improved swallowing
coordinati