Admission Date: [**2154-4-10**]        Discharge Date: [**2154-4-16**]

Date of Birth:  [**2080-3-21**]        Sex:  M

Service:  NSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74 year old
gentleman with multiple medical problems who was found down
on the sidewalk this afternoon. He reportedly had upper
respiratory tract infection symptoms in the morning. Had a
positive head "lac" and change in mental status on EMS
arrival. The patient was unresponsive and incontinent of
stool.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  He has a history of prostate carcinoma
status post prostatectomy, hypertension, history of deep vein
thrombosis in [**2153-8-1**], emphysema and depression.

On physical examination, the patient was in no acute
distress, awake, alert and oriented x 3. Bilateral orbital
ecchymosis. Pupils equal, round, reactive to light, 5 down to
3 mm bilaterally. Extraocular movements full, tongue midline.
The patient was in a hard collar. His cardiovascular -
regular rate and rhythm. Chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally. Abdomen was soft with positive bowel sounds.
Neurologically, he was awake, alert and oriented, following
commands. Speech was fluent. Pupils equal, round, reactive to
light. His face was symmetric. Strength - Right side deltoids
3 bilaterally, biceps 4+ on the right, 4 on the left, triceps
3 bilaterally, grasp 0, wrist extension 0, wrist flexion 0
bilaterally. IPs [**4-4**] in all muscle groups bilaterally.

The patient had a CT of the cervical spine that showed spinal
cord edema at the C3-C4 level, but no evidence of fracture.
The patient also had bilateral nasal fracture seen on sinus
CT. No other injuries. The patient was put on Solu-Medrol
protocol for 24 hours. His strength continued to remain weak
in his upper extremities, 4+ in the deltoids, 3 in the
biceps, 4 in the triceps, finger extension 2's, grasps 2's,
but with some improvement. The patient was monitored in the
ICU for 2 days, then transferred to the floor.

The patient will be followed by oral and maxillofacial
surgery for his nasal fracture at a later date, once the
swelling is reduced. The patient also was found to have an L1
corner fracture and was fitted for a TLSO brace. He should
wear the TLSO brace at all times when head of bed is greater
than 30 degrees in bed or he is out of bed ambulating. When
he is in bed, he should be flat in bed.

His medications at the time of discharge include currently on
4 mg p.o. every 8 hours of Decadron, hydrochlorothiazide 25
p.o. daily, metoprolol 25 p.o. b.i.d. (hold for heart rate
less than 60, SBP less than 110), lisinopril 40 p.o. b.i.d.,
Percocet 1-2 tabs p.o. every 1-2 hours p.r.n., famotidine 20
mg p.o. b.i.d., heparin 5000 units subcutaneously t.i.d.,
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., clindamycin 600 mg IV every 8
hours, insulin sliding scale.

The patient's condition was stable at the time of discharge.
He will followup with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 739**] in [**3-6**] weeks with
repeat scans of his cervical and lumbar spine, and follow up
with OMFS surgery for his nasal fracture.

His condition was stable at the time of discharge.



                        [**Hospital Ward Name **],CHRISTPHERE C.  M.D.02-AAK


Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2154-4-16**] 13:16:43
T:  [**2154-4-16**] 13:41:52
Job#:  [**Job Number 95502**]
