Admission Date:  [**2176-3-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2176-4-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2121-10-1**]       Sex:  F

Service:  TRAUMA

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mrs. [**Known lastname 53174**] is a 54 year old
female with a past medical history significant for
hypertension for which she takes Norvasc who was involved in
a motor vehicle accident in [**Location (un) **].  She was a pedestrian
struck by an SUV that pinned her under the car.  This
involved a relatively prolonged extrication.  She had a low
[**Location (un) 2611**] Coma Score on scene and was hemodynamically unstable
with blood pressures 80/palpable and heart rate of 130.  She
was intubated by [**Location (un) **] and brought in as a Trauma Plus
activation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1.  Norvasc 5 mg q. day.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Unknown.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is married and has at least one
daughter.  Otherwise, high functioning at baseline.  She does
not smoke; has no significant alcohol intake or history.  Has
no history of intravenous drug abuse.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She was otherwise normal and healthy
prior to this event.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs on presentation were:  She
was hypothermic at 95.9 F., rectally; her heart rate was 130;
blood pressure was 60/palp; she was breathing 12 on a vent
with a saturation of 100%.  She had [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 2611**] Coma Score of
3T on arrival.  Her HEENT examination was normocephalic,
atraumatic.  Pupils equally round and reactive to light and
accommodation.  They were 3 to 2 and sluggish.  Her mid face
was stable.  Her oropharynx was normal with an endotracheal
tube noted at 22 cm at the lip.  Her neck was without
crepitus.  Her trachea was midline.  She had no obvious scalp
deformities or laceration.  Her clavicles were without
deformity.  Her chest was decreased on the left side with
obvious subcutaneous emphysema and crepitus.  Her right chest
was somewhat clear to auscultation.  Her abdomen is obese,
slightly distended.  There was no obvious ecchymosis or
pulsatile mass.  Her pelvis was unstable.  Her both lower
extremities were externally rotated.  There was no step off
deformity of either of her extremities.  Her talus revealed
no evidence of step off.  There was ecchymoses in the flanks
bilaterally.  We could not assess tenderness as the patient
was intubated and sedated.  Her cervical spine was without
step off or deformity as well.

A Foley catheter was placed after rectal examination revealed
normal tone, Foley catheter was draining slightly red tinged
urine.  Due to the patient's profound hemodynamic
instability, the patient received a left chest tube and left
tube thoracostomy for presumptive hemopneumothorax with
possible tension.

A FAST examination of the abdomen was otherwise normal.

She underwent a diagnostic peritoneal lavage in the
supraumbilical position to avoid any possible pelvic hematoma
that may be tracking to the anterior sheath.  This was
negative grossly.  It was determined that due to the unstable
nature of her pelvic fracture that her hemodynamic
instability was likely secondary to an ongoing pelvic
bleeding source.  She received a right tube thoracostomy as
well empirically due to the fact that she was profoundly
hemodynamically unstable.  She was getting uncross matched O
negative blood products in the bay as part of her
resuscitation with wide open fluids, bilateral Cordis
subclavian lines were additionally placed during her trauma
resuscitation.

Once all lines and tubes were secured and the patient's
hemodynamics were "relatively stable", she was emergently
taken to the Interventional Radiology Suite where the
patient, under the care of Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 53175**] of the Interventional
Radiology Department, underwent a pelvic angiography and
embolization of a branch of the left internal iliac artery.
She required ongoing cryoprecipitate fresh frozen plasma and
packed red blood cells in transfusions and arterial blood
gases were sent serially from the right femoral sheath which
was left in place by the Interventional Radiology Services.
Her base deficit was initially as high as minus 15.  This was
declining during her resuscitation for several hours of
admission.  She was on a small dose of Neo-Synephrine for
tone as we were actively and aggressively bolusing her fluids
at wide open crystalloid going and were given all
transfusions, crystalloid or packed cells or fresh frozen
plasma through a Level 1 transfuser.

Once the patient's pelvis had been previously wrapped and
stabilized in the Trauma Bay, she was again emergently taken
to the Angiography Suite where the embolization of the branch
of the left internal iliac artery was investigated and
stopped.  She thereafter was then transferred immediately to
the Trauma Intensive Care Unit unit, intubated,
hemodynamically unstable.

Over the next several days, the patient required several
units of blood products and fresh frozen plasma.  She had
high volume requirements.  She did not require pressors
thereafter.  She was being maintained on sedation, however,
off sedation, she intermittently moved all four extremities,
however, was not following commands.  It should be noted that
post pelvic angiography just prior to her transfer to the
Intensive Care Unit she did receive a CT scan of the head,
neck and abdomen.  The CT scan of the head was unremarkable
showing no evidence of skull fracture or parenchymal injury.
A CT scan of the Cervical spine was also negative.  Her CT
scan chest showed no evidence of large vessel injury.  She
had multiple left sided rib fractures and hemopneumothorax
with bilateral tube thoracostomy noted.  She had no evidence
of esophageal injury.  She had a very small pericardial
effusion with the Helmsfield Units on this effusion being
consistent with physiologic fluid.  She had a small Grade I
right posterior hepatic lobe contusion with no evidence of
hematoma or extravasation.  There was evidence of a right
perinephric and adrenal hematoma.  There was a small amount
of hemoperitoneum.  There was no obvious splenic injury.  The
duodenum and pancreas were unremarkable.  She did have events
of retroperitoneal hemorrhage, was not actively extravasating
on her CT scan of the abdomen post angio and embolization.

Again, as re-iterated above, her next several days in the
Intensive Care Unit were somewhat guarded.  She was massively
resuscitated.  She developed adult respiratory distress
syndrome and required high ventilatory PEEPS and she had lung
protective ventilation to utilize with her high PEEP, low
tidal volume and persistent hypercapnia being utilized in her
management strategy.

Please note that the remainder of her hospital course will be
summarized by system:

1.  NEUROLOGIC:  The patient had no evidence of intracranial
injury.  She was given a Fentanyl drip and p.r.n. ativan as
well as Propofol for sedation.  Intermittently her neurologic
examination revealed that she is moving all four extremities.
This was continued until time of her extubation several weeks
after her admission.  For her cervical spine she could not
receive an MRI, therefore her collar was kept in place until
she was extubated, after which time she was clinically
cleared.

2.  PULMONARY STATUS:  The patient had adult respiratory
distress syndrome which resolved after several days.  She had
a ventilator associated pneumonia secondary to Enterobacter
aerogenes for which she received a total of two weeks of
Zosyn.  Her sputum thereafter grew out some Methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus which was likely colonized.
Her chest x-ray showed bibasilar infiltrates, left greater
than right, with a small left pleural effusion.  Over several
days and weeks, her chest tubes began to drain less.  They
were removed without event.  She had had a previous second
left tube thoracostomy placed at the time of her post initial
resuscitation secondary to the fact that the initial tube
thoracostomy on the left side was somewhat low and skiving
the diaphragm and the tip of the tube was abuttin