Admission Date:  [**2171-3-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2171-3-20**]


Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Patient status post ventricular
fibrillation arrest in the setting of end stage renal
disease/hyperkalemia

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 78-year-old
male with a history of end stage renal disease on
hemodialysis, status post inferior non-ST elevation
myocardial infarction in [**2170-11-18**] with subsequent
pre-discharge ETT/MIBI notable for decreased blood pressure
response and fixed inferior and apical defects.  TTE notable
for 3+ AI, 3+ mitral regurgitation, 2+ tricuspid
regurgitation, with inferolateral akinesis/hypokinesis.  The
patient deferred evaluation for valvular surgery at that
time.  Prior to discharge, ultrasound of his left upper
extremity arteriovenous fistula suggested organizing
thrombus.  The patient was able to continue hemodialysis on
Monday, Wednesday and Friday leading up to [**2171-3-4**],
when hemodialysis was reportedly impaired.  Thus the patient
was to present today for arteriovenous fistula revision.  The
patient became suddenly unresponsive in the parking lot, was
shocked on arrival to the Emergency Department, and was found
to be in ventricular fibrillation.  The patient was intubated
and shocked to atrial fibrillation, then converted to sinus
rhythm and given amiodarone 150 mg x 1, after which the
patient had sinus bradycardia at 40 beats per minute with
blood pressure 70/30.  The patient was given 1 mg of atropine
and dopamine with subsequent stabilization.  Stat
laboratories disclosed a potassium of 5.2, and a BUN and
creatinine of 76 and 13.3.  Head CT did not disclose evidence
of an acute process, and chest x-ray was clear.  Trauma line
was inserted into the right groin, and arterial line was
placed in the left groin.  The patient received bicarbonate
and calcium gluconate.  Stat echocardiogram showed no new
wall motion abnormalities.  The patient was transferred to
the Coronary Care Unit for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  End stage renal disease on hemodialysis Monday, Wednesday
and Friday
2.  Hypertension
3.  Hypercholesterolemia
4.  AI 3+
5.  Mitral regurgitation 3+
6.  Status post non-ST elevation myocardial infarction
(inferior, as above, in [**2170-11-18**])
7.  Patent foramen ovale
8.  Status post hernia repair
9.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
10. Gout
11. Status post left cataract surgery

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Aspirin 325 once daily, calcium
carbonate 1 gram three times a day with meals, Captopril 37.5
three times a day, Colace as needed, Isordil 10 three times a
day, Lopressor 50 twice a day, Nephrocaps one twice a day,
Zantac 150 mg once daily, Simvastatin 40 mg once daily.

ALLERGIES:  Levaquin gives the patient a rash.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] quit
smoking 30 years ago.  He had smoked for 60 pack years.  He
denies use of alcohol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.2, heart rate 70,
normal sinus rhythm, blood pressure 140/50, respiratory rate
14, oxygen saturation 99%.  Ventilator setting:  IMV 50%,
700, tidal volume 700, respiratory rate 14.  Arterial blood
gas:  7.38/41/116.  General:  Patient intubated, sedated.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Surgical wide left pupil.
Lungs:  Clear to auscultation anteriorly.  Heart:  Regular
rate and rhythm, II/VI diastolic murmur at left sternal
border, consistent with AI, III/VI holosystolic murmur at
axilla, consistent with mitral regurgitation.  Abdomen:
Soft, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds.
Extremities:  No edema, 2+ femoral pulses, cool feet
bilaterally, with faint pulses all Dopplerable or palpable.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 15.3, hematocrit 37.4, platelet
count 224.  Chemistries:  Sodium 141, potassium 5.9, chloride
100, bicarbonate 23, BUN 75, creatinine 11.8, glucose 186.
INR was 1.2, PT 13.7, PTT 38.9.  Magnesium 2.2, free calcium
1.25, fibrinogen 347.  CK initially was 110, amylase 74,
CK/MB 7, lactate 12.5 at 11:15 A.M. 4 at 12:13 A.M.

RADIOLOGY:  Head CT showed an old lacunar infarct, mild
atrophy, no acute process.  Chest x-ray:  EPT well
positioned, no acute process.  Electrocardiogram:  Normal
sinus rhythm at 74 beats per minute, normal axis and
intervals, Q waves in III and AVF, very mild peaked
precordial T waves, no acute ischemic ST changes.

IMPRESSION:  78-year-old male status post ventricular
fibrillation arrest in the setting of relatively mild
hyperkalemia, all following possible suboptimal dialysis two
days ago.  Significance of underlying coronary artery disease
as inciting factor is unclear.  The patient has no history of
cardiac catheterization pre or post non-ST elevation
myocardial infarction in [**2170-11-18**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Coronary
Care Unit for further management.  The patient underwent stat
dialysis to reverse his hyperkalemia.  Further amiodarone was
held.  As noted above, the patient was intubated and was
transferred to the Coronary Care Unit.

1.  Cardiovascular:
A.  Coronary artery disease:  Following the patient's
dialysis, he went for cardiac catheterization.  Coronary
angiography revealed severe two vessel coronary artery
disease.  The LMCA had no significant stenosis.  The left
anterior descending had a focal 80% stenosis in the proximal
vessel and luminal irregularities throughout the remainder of
the vessel.  The left anterior descending supplied a
moderate-sized bifurcating D1 that had an 80% stenosis in the
lower pole.  The left circumflex had diffuse luminal
irregularities and supplied a large trifurcating obtuse
marginal I and a small obtuse marginal II before terminating
in the AV groove.  The obtuse marginal branches were free of
significant disease.  The right coronary artery had serial
99% lesions in the proximal and mid-vessel, with evidence of
low flow in the distal vessel.  The posterior descending
artery and PLV were small and filled faintly.

Limited resting hemodynamics revealed normal left ventricular
filling pressures with an left ventricular end diastolic
pressure of 15 mm Hg in the setting of normal systemic
arterial blood pressure, no gradient across the aortic valve
was seen.

Left ventriculography demonstrated inferior and posterobasal
hypokinesis with a calculated left ventricular ejection
fraction of 45%, mild 1+ mitral regurgitation was seen.

Rotational atherectomy/PTCA/stenting of the right coronary
artery was performed using three stents.  There was 10%
residual stenosis, normal flow, and no apparent dissection.

Successful percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty/stenting of the proximal left anterior descending
was performed as well.  There was no residual stenosis,
normal flow, and no apparent dissection.

The patient was maintained on aspirin and statin, and was
started on Plavix, which he will require for 12 months.  As
the patient's blood pressure tolerated, he was started on a
beta blocker and ACE inhibitor.

B.  Rhythm:  As noted above, the patient was found to be in
ventricular fibrillation in the Emergency Department.
Etiology of rhythm may be due to scar from prior myocardial
infarction, but cannot exclude hyperkalemia or ischemia.
While the patient was in the Coronary Care Unit, he was
monitored closely on telemetry and was noted to have episodes
of atrial fibrillation/flutter.  The patient converted back
to normal sinus rhythm on his own.

An EP consult was obtained for further evaluation and
possible implantation of AICD.  The EP service thought that
the patient's arrhythmia was likely due to ischemia based on
his cardiac anatomy.  The patient was to go for EP study on
[**3-20**], however, once on the table, he refused the study.
The patient's family wishes for patient to undergo study.
The patient was not willing to undergo the study today.
Risks and benefits of AICD placement have been explained to
the family by the EP service.  Should the family decide that
the patient will undergo the EP study in the future, the
family should contact Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 284**] at [**Hospital1 346**].

C.  Pump:  The patient's beta blocker and ACE inhibitor were
titrated