Admission Date: [**2146-5-13**]        Discharge Date: [**2146-6-8**]

Date of Birth:  [**2081-7-17**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient was admitted to the Medicine
Service on [**5-13**] for a preoperative workup for heart
failure, question transplant.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms [**Known firstname 2147**] [**Known lastname 22633**] is an 84-year-
old woman with a history of type 2 diabetes, peripheral
vascular disease, hypertension, coronary artery disease
(status post coronary artery bypass grafting in [**2137**] with
saphenous vein grafts to the left anterior descending, first
obtuse marginal, and posterior descending artery; status post
percutaneous intervention of saphenous vein graft to the left
anterior descending in [**2142-9-9**]; status post in-stent
restenosis treated with Cypher stent complicated by an upper
gastrointestinal bleed) admitted preoperatively for an aortic
valve replacement with critical aortic stenosis.

The patient presented with decompensated heart failure to
[**Hospital3 8834**] in [**2146-3-10**].  An
echocardiogram revealed bilateral atrial enlargement with an
ejection fraction of 50 percent, with a peak gradient of 51,
with aortic valve area of 0.7 cm2, small secundum atrial
septal defect, trace aortic insufficiency, and 2 plus mitral
regurgitation.  Catheterization revealed native 3-vessel
disease as well as moderate-to-severe left subclavian
stenosis.  Subsequently, the patient had left subclavian
stenting in anticipation of potentially needing a left
internal mammary artery.  Last known diagnostic
catheterization was in [**2146-2-7**] that showed a right
atrium of 14, right ventricle of 61/17, pulmonary artery
pressure of 61/30, with a mean of 40, and wedge pressure of
32, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 34, output of
5.2, and an index of 2.5, with a systemic vascular resistance
of 923, an aortic valve area of 0.8, with an ejection
fraction of 23 percent.  The patient developed a urinary
tract infection, and the aortic valve replacement was
deferred until after the urinary tract infection was treated.
The patient also underwent treatment of salivary gland
infection prior to admission.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  As stated previously, the patient's
Past Medical History is significant for type 2 diabetes
mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular
accident, coronary artery disease (status post coronary
artery bypass grafting), hypertension, aortic stenosis, and a
history of a seizure disorder in the past.

PREOPERATIVE MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lisinopril 20 mg by mouth once per day.
2. Toprol-XL 50 mg by mouth once per day.
3. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg by mouth once per day.
4. Glipizide 5 mg by mouth twice per day.
5. Metformin 850 mg by mouth twice per day.
6. Tegretol 100 mg by mouth three times per day.
7. Nitroglycerin as needed.
8. Zetia 10 mg by mouth once per day.
9. Lasix 20 mg by mouth once per day.


SOCIAL HISTORY:  Married with several children.  A 50-pack-
year history of tobacco use; quit one year ago.  Denies
alcohol use.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No thyroid disease.  No chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  Positive dentures.  History
of gastrointestinal bleed.  Positive neuropathy.  Status post
a 10-day course of antibiotic for salivary gland infection.
History of depression.  All other review of systems was
negative.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  A pleasant woman.  Vital
signs revealed afebrile, heart rate was 80, her blood
pressure was 120/70, and her respiratory rate was 22.  The
neck veins were flat with transmitted murmur versus a bruit.
Normal point of maximal impulse.  A harsh 3/6 systolic murmur
at the right upper sternal border with radiation to the
carotids.  The lungs were clear bilaterally.  The abdomen was
obese and nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  Extremities
revealed no edema.  Palpable pulses, but diminished.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count was
7.4, her hematocrit was 33.5, and her platelets were 278.
Sodium was 138, potassium was 4.2, chloride was 104,
bicarbonate was 25, blood urea nitrogen was 31, creatinine
was 1.2, and blood glucose was 168.  Alanine-aminotransferase
was 12, her aspartate aminotransferase was 11, her alkaline
phosphatase was 101, her total bilirubin was 0.2, and her
albumin was 3.9.  Prothrombin time was 13.1, partial
thromboplastin time was 26.6, and her INR was 1.1.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was followed for
several days the Heart Failure Service as well as the
Medicine Service while she was being worked up for a post
cardiotomy LVAD and potential for heart failure.  She was
deemed not to be a transplant candidate.

On [**5-16**], she was brought to the operating room at which
time she underwent a redo sternotomy with bilateral femoral
cannulation, and she had an aortic valve replacement with 21
pericardial [**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] and a coronary artery bypass
grafting times two - with a saphenous vein graft to the left
anterior descending and a saphenous vein graft to the right
coronary artery.

Her postoperative course was complicated by a thrombus in the
left femoral artery for which she underwent femoral-to-
popliteal thrombectomy by the Vascular Service.  She was
transferred from the Operating Room to the Cardiothoracic
Intensive Care Unit.  At the time of transfer, the patient's
mean arterial pressure was 84, with CVP of 15.  She was in a
sinus rhythm at 104 beats per minute.  She had propofol at 20
mcg/kilogram per minute, dobutamine at 7 mcg/kilogram per
minute, epinephrine at 0.4 mcg/kilogram per minute, Neo-
Synephrine at 0.2 mcg/kilogram per minute, and nitroglycerin
infusions.

On the day of surgery the patient was hemodynamically
unstable.  She also electrocardiogram changes with ST
changes.  She had a transesophageal echocardiogram done on
the morning on postoperative day one.  The indication was ST
changes as well as hypotension.  The results were a normal
functioning aortic bioprosthesis with secundum type atrial
septal defect, prominent left-to-right flow at rest, mild-to-
moderate mitral regurgitation, severe global [**Hospital1 **]-ventricular
systolic dysfunction.

Following the echocardiogram, the patient returned to the
Catheterization Laboratory for a diagnostic catheterization.
This showed all grafts to be open.  Also at that time, a
Cypher stent was placed in the left main.  The patient's
postoperative course was further complicated by ventricular
fibrillation requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation and
several shocks on the night of postoperative day one as well
as amiodarone and lidocaine drips to control ventricular
tachycardia following the cardiac arrest.

On postoperative day two, the patient was again brought to
the Catheterization Laboratory to check graft patency and for
an intraaortic balloon pump  placement.  The grafts were
indeed patent at that time, and an intraaortic balloon pump
was successfully placed.

Over the next several days, the patient was slowly weaned
from some of her vasoactive medications.  Initially, the
patient was chemically paralyzed; however, by postoperative
day four the chemical paralysis was stopped, and the patient
was sedated with Ativan and Fentanyl.

By postoperative day seven, the patient had developed an
elevated white blood cell count.  All lines were changed at
that time, and the patient was pan-cultured.  Additionally,
her intraaortic balloon pump was weaned to 1:3, which she
tolerated well.  Therefore, the patient intraaortic balloon
pump was discontinued at that time.

Following the elevation in the white blood cell count,
cefepime was added to her perioperatively vancomycin.  The
patient also shown to have yeast in her urine, and
fluconazole was added as was Flagyl.  An Infectious Disease
consultation was obtained at that time.  Multiple attempts
were made during this period of time to discontinue the
patient's antiarrhythmic medications.  Every time her
lidocaine was weaned to 1 or less, she would have recurrent
ventricular tachycardia.

Finally, by postoperative day 10 the patient was successfully
weaned from her lidocaine drip.  Her amiodarone