Admission Date:  [**2166-6-26**]       Discharge Date:  [**2166-7-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2092-11-3**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 29876**] is a 73-year-old male
who presented during a routine physical examination with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 8430**] with an abnormal EKG.  The patient was promptly
referred to a cardiologist who then obtained a stress
echocardiogram that determined an ejection fraction of 40-45%
with basal inferior, basal posterior, and inferior septal
hypokinesis with severe akinesis of the septal portion
consistent with prior myocardial infarction.  Given these
findings the patient was referred to [**Hospital1 190**] for cardiac catheterization.

The patient underwent a cardiac catheterization on [**2166-6-20**]
which determined that the left ventricular ejection fraction
was 45% with right dominant coronary artery.  The patient's
left main coronary artery showed moderate calcification with
left anterior descending coronary artery also with moderate
calcification with D1 a dominant diagonal, with a 90% lesion
with heavy calcification.  Additionally, the right coronary
artery also showed occlusion in the mid segment but the
distal vessel filled from the L-R collaterals.  Given these
findings the patient was referred to the cardiothoracic
surgery for coronary artery bypass grafting evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Hypertension.  2.
Hypercholesterolemia.  3. Morbid obesity.  4. Noninsulin
dependent diabetes mellitus.  5. Cataracts.  6. Sleep apnea.
7. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  8. Emphysema.  9.
Eczema.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS:  1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.  2. Nexium 40 mg
p.o. q.d.  3. Lipitor 5 mg p.o. q.d.  4. Zestril 40 mg p.o.
q.d.  5. Glucophage 500 mg p.o. q.d.  6. Atenolol 50 mg p.o.
q.d.  7. Triamterene/hydrochlorothiazide 37.5/25 mg p.o. q.d.
8. Clarinex 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.  9. Advair 500/50 mg puff b.i.d.
10. Nasonex p.r.n.  11. Mucomyst 3 cc b.i.d., first dose was
administered [**2166-6-19**] for cardiac catheterization.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is retired from [**Location (un) **] Tire
Company.  The patient is currently married and lives in
[**Location **] with his wife.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were temperature 97.4,
pulse 80 and sinus, blood pressure 121/79, respiratory rate
20, 90% room air saturation.  The patient is a
well-developed, well-nourished male in no apparent distress
at the time of discharge.  The patient was fully oriented to
time, place and purpose of why he was in the hospital.
HEENT:  Sclerae anicteric.  Cranial nerves II-XII were
intact.  No evidence of cervical lymphadenopathy.  Mucous
membranes were moist with no evidence of oral ulcers.  There
was no evidence of cervical lymphadenopathy noted.  Chest:
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  The patient has a skin
graft on the sternum which is well healing with no evidence
of erythema, no evidence of purulent drainage, however some
mild serosanguinous drainage was noted on the superior
portion which was noted to be normal by the plastic surgical
service.  Epigastric midline incision was also well healing
without any erythema and no evidence of drainage.  The chest
was otherwise clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiac:
Regular rhythm and rate, no evidence of murmurs.  Abdomen:
Soft, obese but nontender to palpation with positive bowel
sounds and no evidence of hepatosplenomegaly and no inguinal
lymphadenopathy.  Extremities:  The right lower extremity is
healing well with no edema and no erythema.

LABORATORY DATA:  As of [**2166-7-29**] the white blood cell count
was 7.3, hematocrit 32.2, platelet count 440.  Sodium 138,
potassium 4.3, chloride 103, bicarbonate 25, BUN 32,
creatinine 1.1, glucose 105, calcium 8.9, magnesium 2.1.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 73-year-old male who
presented to the cardiothoracic surgery service with right
coronary artery dominant vessel occlusion in the mid segment
and 80% mid segment lesion in the left anterior descending
coronary artery mid segment lesion in the left anterior
descending coronary artery along with D1a dominant diagonal
with 90% lesion with heavy calcification.

After obtaining a successful preoperative evaluation, the
patient underwent an uncomplicated coronary artery bypass
grafting x 4 (left internal mammary artery to left anterior
descending coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to right
posterior descending coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to
obtuse marginal, saphenous vein graft to diagonal) on
[**2166-6-26**].

Postoperatively the patient was extubated and transfused with
three units of packed red blood cells and four units of fresh
frozen plasma with two units of platelets.  The patient also
maintained good oxygen saturation post extubation and
maintained adequate blood pressures after Lasix
administration and beta blocker initiation.

By postoperative day number two the patient's Foley catheter
was removed.  That evening the patient developed an episode
of rapid atrial fibrillation to 130-140 beats per minute
which was treated initially with 10 mg of Lopressor and 500
cc of normal saline bolus to maintain the systolic blood
pressure greater than 100 mmHg.  Because of the hypotensive
episode, 150 mg of amiodarone bolus was administered and the
patient's rhythm converted to sinus.

By postoperative day number four the patient's chest tubes
were removed and the patient was anticipated for discharge.

During the following day during a careful examination, a
sternal click was found along with increasing pulmonary
congestion with productive yellow cough.  Further evaluation
was required and the patient was maintained in the hospital.

By postoperative day number seven, the decision was made to
take the patient back to the operating room to repair the
sternal dehiscence.  The patient underwent an uncomplicated
sternal debridement and localization of substernal fat and
closure with wires.  The patient also underwent a
bronchoscopy for the presence of productive cough.

Postoperatively the patient was taken to the cardiac surgery
recovery unit for close observation and maintained on SIMV
ventilation, and Zosyn.  The intraoperative bronchoscopy
result revealed normal nares and nasopharynx, oropharynx,
larynx, and mild secretions in the airways.

Given chest x-ray findings which showed bibasilar atelectasis
and rather unimpressive bronchoscopy findings, the patient
was initiated on aggressive chest physiotherapy regimen.
Vancomycin was also added during this time.

The patient was then extubated on postoperative day number
two following the sternal debridement and the patient
maintained good oxygen saturation on four liters nasal
cannula.  However by postoperative day number six, the
patient's sternum continued to drain a substantial amount of
serosanguinous fluid and plastic surgery continued to examine
the patient and closely monitor the necessity of incising the
obvious area of infection.

By postoperative day number eight the decision was made to
take the patient back to the operating room for another
sternal debridement with placement of split-thickness skin
graft on the sternal wound site.  This procedure occurred
uneventfully however during the following day the patient
required right chest tube placement to maintain reexpansion
of the lung for the presence of pneumothorax.

The patient's condition continued to improve following the
second sternal debridement and split-thickness skin graft.
Despite the overall clinical improvement the patient
continued to require ventilatory support following the second
sternal debridement.  The pulmonary service was consulted at
this time and after careful examination, it was determined
that the patient's diaphragm was working properly.  The
patient exhibited good strength along with a chest x-ray
which did not show a focal infiltrate.  The patient's
effusions were also small and moderate on the CT suggesting
that his persistent ventilatory dependence was not completely
mechanical in nature.  Subsequently the patient's narcotic
usage was decreased and the patient was continued to be
weaned off of the ventilator