Admission Date:  [**2119-1-7**]       Discharge Date:  [**2119-1-24**]


Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY

ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:  Rule out myocardial infarction.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 79-year-old male, with
a history of coronary artery disease and known left carotid
artery blockage, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension, who was
seen in the [**Hospital1 18**] Emergency Department on [**2119-1-7**].
The patient states that he had had chest pain last evening
lasting approximating 5 minutes after exertion.  The patient
describes the chest pain as burning, substernal, no
radiation, no nausea, vomiting, no diaphoresis, no shortness
of breath.  The patient stated that the pain was relieved
after 5 minutes after taking a Nitroglycerin tablet.  The
patient states that he has often had this pain at night after
exerting himself.  The patient states that this pain has been
unchanged.  The patient denies orthopnea or lower extremity
swelling.

The patient reports that he has had a stress test in the
past.  Upon review, it was noticed that the patient was
exercised for 10 minutes using a modified [**Doctor First Name **] protocol and
was stopped due to fatigue.  At peak exercise, there was
approximately 2.0-2.5 mm down-sloping ST depression in
anterior and lateral leads, and slightly less in the inferior
leads.  These changes were noted in the presence of a
baseline abnormal ECG of right bundle branch block and left
ventricular hypertrophy with prominent T wave abnormalities.
This exercise stress test was essentially unchanged from an
earlier test performed in [**2114-3-19**].

PREVIOUS MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Coronary artery disease.
2. Hyperlipidemia.
3. Hypertension.
4. Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
5. Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
6. Asthma.
7. Allergic rhinitis.
8. Left carotid blockage.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg po bid.
2. Atenolol 50 mg qd.
3. Nitroglycerin sublingual.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife, is a
nonsmoker, heavy alcohol usage.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  The patient was afebrile, 98.3, pulse 57,
blood pressure 165/72, respiratory rate 20, 95% on room air.
In general, he was alert and oriented, in no apparent
distress, very pleasant.  Cardiovascular - regular rate and
rhythm, II/VI systolic ejection murmur noted at the left
lower sternal border.  Lung exam was clear to auscultation
bilaterally with a long expiratory phase.  Abdominal exam -
soft, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds.
Extremities - no edema.  Distal pulses were palpated.  Neck
exam - no JVP, no bruits, no masses were discernible.  Rectal
exam - guaiac negative, enlarged prostate.

LABS ON ADMISSION:  CBC - white count 7.7, hematocrit 47.2,
platelets 189.  Chemistry - sodium 141, potassium 4.5,
chloride 104, bicarb 31, BUN 23, creatinine 1.2, PT 13.2, PTT
25.2, INR 1.1.  The patient had a set of cardiac enzymes sent
off.  CK was 106, troponin 0.02.

CHEST X-RAY:  Cardiomegaly, no consolidation, flattened
diaphragm, no CHF noted.

EKG:  Sinus rhythm in the 50s, left ventricular hypertrophy,
right bundle branch block, normal axis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the medicine
service for a rule out evaluation for myocardial infarction.
The patient had serial enzymes done with the CK decreasing
from 106 to 80 to 72.  His troponin initially at 0.02
decreased to 0.01.  The patient was planned to have a stress
test and follow-up the results.

On hospital day #3, the patient complained of having chest
pain, [**5-29**], with substernal tightness.  An EKG done at that
time showed ST depression in V1 and V2.  The patient's pain
was relieved after 3 sublingual nitrogen tablets and 1 mg
morphine.  The patient's blood pressure was systolic
120s-140.  Heart rate 80.  After this episode, the patient
was evaluated by the Department of Cardiology which noted
that the patient was now with unstable angina.  It was
advised that the patient undergo angiography, carotid duplex,
and cardiac catheterization.  A set of enzymes was sent-off
following this episode.  CK came back at 102, CK-MB 6,
troponin 0.17.

On [**2119-1-10**], the patient underwent an MIBI stress
test, during which the patient developed chest pain.  The
patient's chest pain was resolved status post 3 sublingual
nitrogen tablets and IV morphine.  Stress test showed ST
depression in leads V1 through V3.  The patient was started
on a heparin drip and referred to cardiothoracic surgery
service.  Also on [**1-11**], the patient underwent a
carotid duplex which showed a right internal carotid stenosis
of 70-79%, and a left internal stenosis of less than 40%.
The patient underwent a cardiac catheterization which noted
that the patient had three-vessel disease.

On [**2119-1-11**], the patient underwent coronary artery
bypass grafting x 4 with the LIMA to the left anterior
descending, SVG to O1, SVG to the PDA to the OM1.  The
surgery was performed by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 70**], and there were
on complications noted, and the patient tolerated the
procedure well.  Postoperatively, the patient remained
intubated, was A-paced, and placed on a Levophed drip for
pressure support.  Following a brief stay in the PACU, the
patient went to the CSRU where the patient arrived at a paced
rate of approximately 90 beats per minute.  The patient was
noted to have labile blood pressure requiring IV
Nitroglycerin and IV Levophed drips in order to keep his
systolic blood pressure between 120 and 140.

The patient remained intubated with plans to extubate when
the patient was stable.  Initial attempts to extubate were
unsuccessful, but the patient was weaned to a pressure
support of 5 and 5, with 40% FIO2.

On postoperative day #1, another attempt was made to extubate
the patient, but the patient went into pulmonary edema, and
subsequently was placed on SIMV.  The patient was noted to
have rales and rhonchi bilaterally, and had symptoms of a
frothy pink sputum, with a respiratory acidosis.
Cardiovascularly, the patient was noted to have frequent PVCs
with runs of bigeminy.  A Swan catheter was placed with no
effects.  The patient continued to be maintained on Levophed
and Nitroglycerin to maintain his systolic blood pressure
between 120 and 140.  The patient also underwent several
episodes of ectopy, though his cardiac index remained greater
than 2.0.

From a respiratory standpoint, the patient continued to have
thick yellow secretions and rhonchorous-sounding lungs.  His
SP02 was maintained at 95%, and the vent was able to correct
his respiratory acidosis.  His secretions improved after
administration of 40 mg IV lasix.  The decision was made to
keep the patient on the vent overnight with plans to extubate
on [**1-14**].  A chest x-ray was done to evaluate the
patient's increased secretions and decreased breath sounds.
This revealed no pulmonary edema, but questionable developing
consolidation.  As a precaution, the patient was placed on
Levofloxacin for a questionable developing nosocomial
pneumonia.

The patient was also evaluated by  electrophysiology for the
patient's continued ventricular ectopy and sinus node
dysfunction.  It was determined at that time that the patient
did not need a permanent pacemaker placed at that time.

On postoperative day #2, the patient was weaned off SIMV down
to CPAP with his initial pressure support at 15 which was
weaned down to 5.  As a result of this successful weaning,
the patient was extubated and placed on a face mask of 40%
FIO2.  The patient was able to maintain his O2 saturations at
99% with no stridor, but still slightly coarse breath sounds.

From a cardiovascular standpoint, the patient went back into
a ST rate of 150s, with a stable blood pressure.  The patient
continued to have frequent PVCs, bigeminy, trigeminy,
occasional couplets.  The patient was started on Lopressor
12.5 mg po, and bolused with amiodarone, and placed on an
amiodarone drip.  The patient's blood pressure remained
labile, still requiring a Nitroglycerin drip.  Additionally,
the patient received 1 unit of packed red blood cells for a
low hematocrit.

Additionally on this day,