Admission Date:  [**2140-11-18**]     Discharge Date: [**2140-11-30**]


Service:  Medicine

NOTE:  This is an incomplete Discharge Summary.  Please see
additional Discharge Summary dictations for completion of the
[**Hospital 228**] hospital course, discharge diagnoses, and discharge
medications.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86-year-old
woman with congestive heart failure (with an ejection
fraction of 20% to 25%), chronic atrial fibrillation,
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, severe peripheral
vascular disease (with several right lower extremity bypass
surgeries) who was recently admitted to the Vascular Service
at the [**Hospital1 69**] for worsening
right lower extremity ischemia that was treated
conservatively with antibiotics (Zosyn), dressing changes,
and pain management.

Cardiology Service followed the patient and adjusted
medications for volume overload and blood pressure
management.  The patient was discharged to rehabilitation on
[**11-2**] with an amputation scheduled for [**11-20**] at
[**Hospital1 69**].

At the rehabilitation facility ([**Location (un) **]), on the day of
admission, the patient complained of shortness of breath with
an oxygen saturation of 75% on room air which increased to
90% with 2 liters nasal cannula.  There was also a question
of low blood pressures, and the patient was transferred to
the [**Hospital 26200**] Hospital where oxygen saturations were
noted to be 79% on room air, which improved to 93% with 2
liters; however, the respiratory rate was 34.  The patient's
blood pressure was noted to be 134/72, but then dropped to
70/palpable, and the patient was noted to hypothermic with a
temperature of 95.4.

A chest x-ray performed at the outside facility showed
questionable right upper lobe consolidation and congestive
heart failure.  The patient received Lasix 40 mg
intravenously times one and was started on intravenous
levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. with plans to initiate Flagyl
as well.

The patient was then transferred to the [**Hospital1 190**] Emergency Room with continued shortness of
breath and an oxygen saturation of 86% to 100% on 4 liters
which improved to 98%.  The patient was noted to be in atrial
fibrillation with a heart rate into the 110s and 120s and a
blood pressure of 100/60 which dropped to 84/56.

At approximately 1:30 in the morning, the patient was started
on Levophed 2 mcg/min with an increase in blood pressure to
99/65.  The patient's temperature was 96.6.  Therefore, the
patient was started on a bear hugger.  In the Emergency
Department, the patient became more alert with an elevation
of her blood pressure as the patient was able to speak in
full sentences as opposed to one-word answers, and a noted
right eyelid drop had resolved at this time.  Blood cultures
were drawn after the initiation of antibiotics.  The
patient's heart rate was noted to become elevated into the
150s in the Emergency Department; and, therefore, intravenous
Cardizem 5 mg was given times two with a decrease in heart
rate to the 120s to 130s.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient complained of thirst and
discomfort with swallowing.  She denied any chest pain,
palpitations, shortness of breath, abdominal pain, nausea,
vomiting, diarrhea, and dysuria.  She did have right leg
pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Congestive heart failure.
2.  Atrial fibrillation.
3.  Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (with
neuropathy).
4.  Mitral valve regurgitation.
5.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post right lower
extremity bypass times four with the latest in [**2139-11-17**], followed by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].
6.  History of hypercalcemia.
7.  Hypercholesterolemia.
8.  Echocardiogram in [**2140-1-15**] showed left atrial
dilatation with moderate left ventricular hypertrophy, an
ejection fraction of 20% to 25%, with global hypokinesis, 2+
mitral regurgitation, 2+ tricuspid regurgitation, 1+ aortic
regurgitation, and moderate pulmonary hypertension.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Right femoral-popliteal bypass times five.
2.  Right common femoral artery to anterior tibialis with
vein angioplasty and jump graft in [**2138-7-18**].
3.  Balloon angioplasty and proximal anastomosis in [**2139-7-18**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.
 2.  Lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. q.d.
 3.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Pravastatin 20 mg p.o. q.d.
 5.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
 6.  Coumadin 1 mg p.o. q.d. (at rehabilitation).  At home,
the patient was on Coumadin 3 mg on odd days alternating with
2 mg on even days.
 7.  Darvocet N-100 one tablet p.o. q.4-6h. as needed.
 8.  Bacitracin ointment to ulcer area.
 9.  Metoprolol 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
10.  Ativan 0.5 mg p.o. q.4-6h. as needed.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  In general, the
patient was alert and awake but disoriented somewhat; with
the date being [**3141-10-16**] being [**Hospital1 **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) 2748**].  Temperature was 96.6 rectally,
heart rate was 122 (in atrial fibrillation), blood pressure
was 122/76 (which decreased to 84/56), oxygen saturation was
94% on 4 liters.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed pupils were equal, round and reactive to
light.  Extraocular movements were intact.  Normocephalic and
atraumatic.  The oropharynx with petechiae on posterior
oropharynx and some exudate on the tongue and buccal mucosa.
The neck was supple with right internal jugular in place.
Cardiovascular examination revealed irregularly irregular and
tachycardic.  The chest revealed decreased breath sounds at
the right base with crackles halfway up bilaterally.  The
abdomen revealed normal active bowel sounds.  Soft,
nontender, and nondistended.  Extremity examination revealed
necrotic right toes with dressing in place and pneumatic
boots on.  Lower extremity edema of 1+ up to the knees
bilaterally and dry gangrene over the right foot and lower
extremity.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed white blood cell count was 10 (with a differential
of 89 polys, 3 bands, 6 lymphocytes, and 2 monocytes),
hematocrit was 43.6, and platelets were 138.  Prothrombin
time was 15.5, INR was 1.6, and partial thromboplastin time
was 34.8.  Sodium was 140, potassium was 4.4, chloride was
102, bicarbonate was 25, blood urea nitrogen was 65,
creatinine was 1.3, and blood glucose was 100.  Calcium was
9.5, magnesium was 2, and phosphate was 5.1.  Urinalysis
revealed 0 to 2 red blood cells, 0 white blood cells, no
bacteria or yeast.  Urine culture was pending.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed right effusion
with mild congestive heart failure, middle right upper lobe
consolidation with questionable left retrocardiac
consolidation.

Electrocardiogram revealed atrial fibrillation with a rate of
118, left axis deviation, with a left bundle-branch block, ST
elevations of 1 mm in leads V2, ST depressions of 1 mm in V5
through V6 (which were slightly more pronounced than prior
electrocardiograms).

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  The patient's initial hypotension
was thought to be secondary to sepsis with an element of
congestive heart failure and atrial fibrillation with a rapid
ventricular response.

The patient was started on Levophed initially and was
admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.  The patient was
weaned off the Levophed quickly on [**2140-11-19**].  The
patient was also started on broad spectrum antibiotics given
the possible diagnosis of sepsis secondary to pneumonia and a
right gangrenous leg.  The patient's hypotension improved to
a systolic blood pressure of 100s to 120s.

Once the patient was transferred out of the Intensive Care
Unit (on [**2140-11-19**]), it was unclear what the patient's
intravascular volume status was given evidence of rales on
pulmonary examination and elevated jugular venous pressure;
however, a fractional secretion of sodium was found to be
less than 1%, and the patient was complaining of thirst.
Initially, the patient was given normal saline fluid boluses
to help increase her urine output; which, by hospital day
five, had decreased less than 15 cc per