Admission Date:  [**2114-11-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2114-12-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2048-7-14**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
Asian male who has a history of hypertension and was doing
yard work and had a syncopal event.  He was admitted to
[**Hospital3 **] on [**2114-11-20**] and had an EKG which was
suspicious for an MI.  He was started on Lopressor and
transferred to [**Hospital1 18**] for cardiac catheterization.  He
underwent cardiac catheterization on [**2114-11-21**] which
revealed an ejection fraction of about 30% with 1-2+ MR,
anterior basal hypokinesis, anterolateral hypokinesis, apical
dyskinesis, and inferior and posterior basal hypokinesis.
His left main coronary artery showed 40-50% stenosis.  His
left anterior descending artery had ostial and proximal
severe diffuse disease and was totally occluded after the
first diagonal.  His left circumflex showed major OM with 40%
ostial lesion and a 70% distal stenosis.  His right coronary
artery is dominant with a mid tubular 60% stenosis and a
distal 70% stenosis.  He also had an echocardiogram which
revealed an EF of 50% and moderate to severe mitral
regurgitation. He was then referred for cardiac surgery.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  History of hypertension.
2.  History of pneumonia.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives at home with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] does not
smoke.  He does not drink alcohol.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:  He did not taken any medications at
home but on transfer was taking Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
and aspirin 325 mg.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Unremarkable.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  General:  The patient was
a well-developed, well-nourished Asian male in no apparent
distress.  The vital signs were stable.  HEENT:  PERRL, EOMI,
oropharynx benign with good dentition.  His neck was supple
with a full range of motion.  He had no lymphadenopathy or
thyromegaly.  His carotids were 2+ and equal bilaterally
without bruits.  His lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  His heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm
without rub or gallop.  There is a III/VI holosystolic
ejection murmur from the apex to the axilla.  Abdomen:
Positive bowel sounds, soft, nontender, without masses or
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities:  Without clubbing, cyanosis
or edema.  He had 2+ pulses bilaterally throughout.
Neurologic:  Nonfocal.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  On admission, white count 6.2,
hematocrit 41.3%, platelet count 539,000.  Potassium 3.8, BUN
16, creatinine 1.2.

The EKG showed sinus rhythm in the 60s with ST elevations in
the inferior leads, ST elevations in V2, V3, and V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  While awaiting surgery, he was seen by the
Electrophysiology staff in regards to his syncopal episode.
They did feel that his syncopal episode was consistent with a
possible vagal episode but they felt that they would rather
do EP studies following his CABG and at that point may or may
not place an AICD.

On [**2114-11-23**], he underwent coronary artery bypass
grafting times three with left internal mammary artery to
left anterior descending artery, saphenous vein graft to the
OM, and saphenous vein graft to the PDA.  He also had a
mitral valve replacement with a #31 Carbomedics mechanical
valve and intra-aortic balloon pump placed intraoperatively.
This surgery was performed by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] with [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], nurse practitioner as the assistant.  The surgery
was performed under general endotracheal anesthesia with the
cardiopulmonary bypass time of 175 minutes and a cross-clamp
time of 154 minutes.

The patient was transferred to the Cardiac Surgery Recovery
Unit on epinephrine, milrinone, nitroglycerin, and propofol
in normal sinus rhythm, two atrial and two ventricular pacing
wires and two mediastinal and one left pleural chest tube.

In the immediate postoperative period the patient was noted
to have a nosebleed and increased chest tube drainage.  He
was given Protamine, 1 unit of FFP, 4 units of packed cells,
and one dose of cryoprecipitate.  He was noted to have
profound hypotension and underwent TEE which revealed
hypokinetic anterior wall but was actually better than the
immediate postoperative TEE.

On postoperative day number one, he remained sedated and
intubated.  He continued on the milrinone drip and the
epinephrine drip was weaned to 0.01 micrograms.  His
epinephrine drip was eventually weaned and discontinued
during that day.  By postoperative day number two, his
milrinone was decreased and he was started on Lasix for
diuresis.

Also on postoperative day number two, his sedation was
lightened.  He was able to move everything to commands but
became hypotensive and was eventually placed back on the
propofol drip.

By postoperative day number three, he was continued to be
hemodynamically stable after epinephrine with the milrinone
weaned down slightly.  His intra-aortic balloon pump was
discontinued without incident.  He continued to be sedated
and the ventilator was weaned.  Also, on this day he was
noted to be in atrial flutter and an Amiodarone bolus was
given.  He was almost cardioverted but converted to normal
sinus rhythm on his own.  Also, his propofol was weaned to
off on this day.

Off the propofol, he was very slow to wake and remained
lethargic the following postoperative day but did follow
commands and move all extremities.

By postoperative day number four, the ventilator continued to
be very slowly weaned and his milrinone was decreased to
0.25.  Later that day, he had paroxysmal atrial fibrillation
from which he converted to normal sinus rhythm and then a
junctional rhythm.  He continued on Amiodarone and had
started on heparin.

On postoperative day number five, he had his chest tube
discontinued and he had a new left subclavian Cordis and Swan
placed.  His chest x-ray did show a left-sided pneumothorax
and he did have a new chest tube inserted on that side which
showed reinflation of the left lung.

By postoperative day number six, his milrinone was
discontinued and he continued to have good cardiac function.
He was also extubated on postoperative day number six and
tolerated that well.

By postoperative day number seven, he was started on heparin
for anticoagulation for his atrial fibrillation and his
mechanical mitral valve.  He was also transferred to the
surgical floor on this day and began more aggressive physical
therapy.

By postoperative day number eight, it was decided that his
Coumadin should be held in case the plan for EP study and
insertion of a ICD would be done this admission.  He
continued to be treated with heparin and have his Coumadin
held while the Electrophysiology Service sorted out his
echocardiogram and decided when would be the best time to do
his studies.  He did have a rise in his white blood cell
count on postoperative day number nine and cultures were
sent.  His chest x-ray did show a left lower lobe
consolidation and he was started on levofloxacin.

On postoperative day number 11, he was complaining of throat
pain.  He was noted to have a purulent exudate around his
uvula and he was started on Rocephin for that and his
Levaquin was discontinued.  His Coumadin continued to be held
because his INR had bumped high and were waiting for it to
decreased to remove his pacing wires.

During that time, it was felt that he would not need to have
EP studies during this admission and the plan was for him to
return after discharge to see Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 284**] for further
electrophysiology workup.

By postoperative day number 12, his INR had drifted down to
1.9 and his pacing wires were discontinued without incident.
He was restarted on his Coumadin and was awaiting elevation
of his INR to be discharged home.

Over the next week, he did receive doses of anywhere from 1-3
mg of Coumadin each time his INR would bump into the range of
5.  The remainder of his hospital course was uncomplicated.
By the second attempt at anticoagulation, his INR drifted
down to 2.6 and he was