Admission Date: [**2104-7-28**]        Discharge Date: [**2104-8-6**]

Date of Birth:  [**2034-9-1**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This was a 69 year old white
male patient with a known history of aortic stenosis which
was discovered by murmur a number of years ago and followed
by serial echocardiograms. In [**2103-9-5**], the patient
underwent a stress test due to an abnormal EKG. At that time,
he had a near arrest episode. He was admitted to the hospital
at that time and underwent cardiac catheterization which
showed severe catheter-induced spasm of the right coronary
artery in the Cath. Lab. He also was found to have mild
coronary artery disease and severe aortic stenosis with an
aortic valve area of 1.1 and a left ventricular ejection
fraction of 61 percent. Subsequent echocardiogram in [**Month (only) 958**] of
this year revealed decreasing aortic valve area of 0.8 cm and
a peak aortic valve gradient of 92. He was ultimately
referred for an aortic valve replacement.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Past medical history is significant
for severe aortic stenosis with left ventricular hypertrophy,
chronic back pain and sleep apnea. He is status post left
elbow repair as a child and tonsillectomy as a child.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg po qd, Lopressor 25 mg po bid,
Zestril 5 mg po qd, Ismo 20 mg po bid and Wellbutrin 150 mg
po bid.

Laboratory values upon admission to the hospital were
unremarkable as was his physical examination.

HO[**Last Name (STitle) **] COURSE:  The patient went to the Cardiac
Catheterization Lab on [**2104-7-28**]. However, they were
unable to cross the aortic valve with a wire. He was
subsequently taken to the Operating Room on [**2104-7-29**]
where he underwent an aortic valve replacement with a No. 27
Paramount tissue valve by Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] [**Last Name (Prefixes) **].
Postoperatively, the patient was transported from the
Operating Room to the Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit in good
condition on Neo-Synephrine and propofol drips. Approximately
two hours after arrival in the Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit,
he had a spontaneous precipitous drop in blood pressure
followed a ventricular tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation
arrest. He was shocked, amiodarone was initiated and a full
open chest arrest was initiated at that time. ECMO was
initiated at that time after the open chest arrest due to
acute biventricular cardiac failure. He was then taken to the
Cardiac Catheterization Lab which revealed diffuse vasospasm
of his coronary arteries. After the Cath. Lab procedure, he
was brought back to the Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit later
that night. His chest had been left open but his dressings
were removed and he did have some cleaning out of blood clots
and irrigation and some small bleeding sites identified and
repaired. The following day, postoperative day 1,  he was
taken to the Operating Room to have biventricular assist
devices placed. He was placed on the Abiomed AB-5000
ventricular support system, both right and left ventricles.
However, he still remained hypoxic at that time and due to
continued hypoxia while on biventricular support, he had
bilateral femoral veins cannulated for a venovenous ECMO
circuit for oxygenation. This was initiated on the [**7-30**]. The following day, [**7-31**], the patient remained
hypoxic. Nitric oxide has been added. Biventricular assist
devices were continued and maintained with varying flows on
the devices. He was on vasopressin and Neo-Synephrine drips
as well as sedation and paralytics to facilitate ventilation.
His chest remained open and a Lasix drip was initiated due to
profound volume overload. Later in the day on the [**7-31**], his chest was again re-explored at the bedside due to
beginnings of tamponade physiology and hemodynamics. Some
clots were removed as well as a lot of bleeding was evacuated
and shortly thereafter, the flows on the ventricular assist
devices improved significantly to above 4 liters bilaterally.
The patient was continued on prophylactic antibiotic coverage
and remained on the previously stated vasopressors. The
following day, [**8-1**], Natrecor was initiated. He was
again re-explored at the bedside for continued bleeding and
some small bleeding sites were identified and fixed with
suture and he remained on ECMO and biventricular assist
support. He was on cisatracurium, fentanyl, vasopressin,
Lasix and Levophed drips. Natrecor was also initiated at that
time. He had good urine output but still remained grossly
fluid overloaded. He had a bronchoscopy later in the day for
which thick bloody secretions were obtained. On [**8-2**],
the patient's ECMO support had been weaned to minimal
assistance. His biventricular assist devices remained with
good flow over the next 12 hours or so above 4 liters on both
sides. He was on cisatracurium, Levophed, Natrecor and
vasopressin drips and his ECMO was discontinued at that time.
A Renal Medicine consult was also obtained and CVVH was
initiated for his profound fluid overload to facilitate
anticipated chest closure and oxygenation. The patient also
was noted to have some episodes of ventricular tachycardia
for which he was shocked and placed on IV lidocaine. The
following day, [**8-3**], he remained on CVVH. He had
adequate ventricular assist device flows on both sides. He
remained on lidocaine drip without further ventricular
tachycardia and a significant amount of fluid removal had
been underway. On [**8-4**], the patient had more ventricular
rhythm issues. His white blood cell count had increased. TPN
was initiated and due to an elevation in his white blood cell
count, attempt by the Interventional Cardiology Service was
made at the bedside under fluoroscopic guidance to change his
Swan-Ganz catheter and right IJ introducer to place new
lines. However, despite multiple attempts, this was
unsuccessful. Therefore, the pulmonary artery catheter was
ultimately removed and the patient was left with a triple
lumen catheter in its place. The patient underwent another
bronchoscopy on this day and a lot of small plugs and blood
clots were removed. He also was tolerating significant
amounts of volume removed by his CVVH. Ventilator support had
been decreased. His FIO2 was able to be weaned. His
ventricular assist device flows were remaining above 4 liters
per minute on each side and the following day, [**8-5**], it
was decided that the patient at this point was now about 10
liters negative from his CVVH over the prior 2-3 days. His
nitric oxide had been weaned to 10 parts per million and it
was felt this was the best opportunity to attempt a chest
closure in the Operating Room. He was taken to the Operating
Room and his chest was closed. However, the patient did have
significant difficulty ventilating and oxygenating after his
chest was closed. He underwent bronchoscopy in the Operating
Room, maintained paralyzed with cisatracurium. He had an
increasing pressor requirement as well after his chest
closure as well as significantly increased requirement for
ventilator support. Nitric oxide had been increased back to
40 parts per million. The patient throughout the late
afternoon and evening of [**8-5**] was noted to have a
significantly increasing metabolic acidosis with a
significantly rising lactate which initially went from 2
ultimately to the 20-22 range. He also had a white blood cell
count rising into the 30,000 range. Throughout the course of
the afternoon and evening, he required very large volumes of
IV fluids, blood products as well as significant bicarbonate
replacement due to worsening acidosis. He was also noted to
have extremely elevated liver function studies/transaminases
throughout the course of the night. The patient did also
undergo another bronchoscopy the night of the [**8-5**]
for which he had a significant amount of secretions. He also
had some blood clots and some plugging of the right lower
lobe with secretions. An Infectious Disease consult was also
obtained due to a rising white blood cell count and it was
their recommendation to continue the vancomycin but to switch
the Zosyn to meropenem just for prophylaxis until 