Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 107191**]
Admission Date: [**2109-1-31**]        Discharge Date: [**2109-2-10**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  M

Service:


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was 69-year-old male
with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
coronary artery disease, and peripheral vascular disease who
presented with respiratory failure to the Intensive Care
Unit.  The patient was originally admitted on [**2109-1-30**]
to the Neurology Service after presenting with left hand
numbness, fevers, and chills.

The patient's chest x-ray on admission was negative, and a
magnetic resonance imaging/magnetic resonance angiography
done showed no acute infarction and no flow changes in the
arteries.

On [**1-31**], the patient had a temperature spike to 101.8
degrees, and then in the early evening complained of chest
pain.  Approximately one to two hours later, the patient had
respiratory failure with an arterial blood gas of
7.04/112/84, with a blood pressure of 220/100, and a pulse of
110.  The patient was intubated.  Then, secondary to
hypotension (with a systolic blood pressure drop to 70) was
transiently placed on dopamine and transferred to the
Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease; status post
stent in [**2107-4-25**].

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (on home oxygen).

Hypercholesterolemia.

Hypertension.

Peripheral vascular disease.

Bilateral aortoiliac occlusion.

Cerebrovascular accident in occipital area after a right
internal carotid artery stent.

A right internal carotid artery stent placed in [**2108-4-24**].

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER TO INTENSIVE CARE UNIT:
[**Unit Number **]. Aspirin.
2. Plavix.
3. Lopressor.
4. Salmeterol.
5. Maxair.
6. Combivent.
7. Diltiazem 240 mg by mouth once per day (which was held).


FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's family history included
coronary artery disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  A 120-pack-year history of smoking; quitting
three years prior to admission.  No history of alcohol use.
No history of intravenous drug use.  The patient has two
daughters and lives alone.  he is divorced.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON TRANSFER:  Vital signs revealed a
temperature of 98.3, his pulse was 110, his blood pressure
was 150/70, and he was saturating 100 percent on assist
control 750 X 12, a positive end-expiratory pressure of 5,
and an FiO2 of 50 percent.  In general,  the patient appeared
to be in no apparent distress and was intubated.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat examination showed anicteric sclerae.
The oropharynx was clear.  The patient's cardiac examination
showed that he was tachycardic.  Normal first and second
heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Pulmonary
examination showed diffuse wheezes with some rhonchi.  The
abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  There were
normal active bowel sounds.  The patient's extremities showed
no edema and no calf tenderness.  The patient's neurologic
examination showed that he was sedated; although, even with
decreased sedation he did respond.

LABORATORY STUDIES ON TRANSFER:  White blood cell count was
17.7 (which was an increase from his baseline of 7.8 on
admission), his hematocrit was 34.8, and his platelets were
230.  The patient's sodium was 142, potassium was 5.1,
chloride was 105, bicarbonate was 29, blood urea nitrogen was
20, creatinine was 1.4 (with a baseline of 1.1), and blood
glucose was 126.  The patient's creatine kinase was 213.  His
calcium was 8.7, his magnesium was 1.8, and his phosphorous
was 4.9.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY-IMAGING:  The patient's electrocardiogram
showed sinus tachycardia at 132 beats per minute with no
acute changes compared to prior electrocardiograms.

The patient's echocardiogram done on [**1-31**] showed an
ejection fraction of 40 percent with severe pulmonary
hypertension and severe mitral regurgitation.  There was no
atrial septal defect or patent foramen ovale noted on the
Doppler.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  RESPIRATORY FAILURE:  The
patient had been intubated secondary to respiratory failure,
and after eight days of intubation had repeated unsuccessful
attempts at extubated and a failure to wean.  After long
discussions with the patient, the family, and the Intensive
Care Unit team, it was decided that the patient would be made
do not resuscitate and do not intubate.

After repeated attempts to maximize the patient's extubated
conditions, the patient was still unable to be weaned or
extubated.  After further discussions with the patient's
daughters - including the healthcare proxy - the patient was
made comfort measures only and extubated.  The patient was
then called out to the floor where the patient passed away on
[**2109-2-10**].

The patient's family was notified, and they declined an
autopsy.  Both the attending and the admitting offices were
also notified of the patient's passing.



                        [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], [**MD Number(1) 6648**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2109-7-5**] 14:56:39
T:  [**2109-7-5**] 16:29:08
Job#:  [**Job Number **]
