Admission Date:  [**2188-6-13**]       Discharge Date:  [**2188-7-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2131-5-14**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CARDIAC SURGERY

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Worsening dyspnea on exertion.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 57-year-old
female with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease and prior tobacco use who presented with a long
history of dyspnea on exertion and new onset angina.  She had
an outpatient cardiac catheterization that revealed
three-vessel coronary artery disease, aortic stenosis, and
pulmonic stenosis.  She denied having any history of
cerebrovascular accident, transient ischemic attack, or
atrial fibrillation.  She also has no history of orthopnea or
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  She does have occasional lower
extremity edema and reports claudication with 2-3 blocks of
walking occurring bilaterally in her calves.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Obesity.  2.  Chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.  3.  Spinal stenosis.  4.  Back pain.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  L3-4 laminectomy.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Aspirin, Lipitor, Vioxx, Oxycodone,
Singulair, Albuterol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  The patient was noted to be
an obese, older female, in no acute distress.  HEENT:  There
was no carotid bruit.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Heart:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  Abdomen:
Obese.  Extremities:  Warm with trace edema.  Palpable pulses
bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count was 9,
hematocrit 37, platelet count 310, BUN and creatinine 21 and
0.7.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted through Same Day
Surgery to the Cardiac Surgery Service.  On [**2188-6-13**], she
was taken to the operating room where she had an aortic valve
replacement, pulmonic valve replacement, coronary artery
bypass grafting times three.  Her aortic valve was a 21 mm CE
pericardial valve, and her pulmonic valve is a 23 mm CE
pericardial valve.  Her grafts are LIMA to left anterior
descending, saphenous vein graft to OM, and saphenous vein
graft to posterior descending artery.  The patient's
procedure itself was unremarkable other than a
cardiopulmonary bypass time of 214 min with a cross-clamp
time of 182 min.

Postoperatively the patient was taken intubated to the
Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit.  During and after her
operation that evening, she required transfusion with
multiple units of blood products.  She ultimately received 7
U of packed red blood cells, 6 [**Location 16678**], and 2 U of
platelets.  That evening, her cardiac index remained low, and
she required a Dobutamine drip to maintain her cardiac
output.  In addition, she required resuscitation with
approximately 8 L of intravenous fluids.

The next day, the fluid started to mobilized with the aid of
intravenous Lasix.  The patient was extubated, but by the
second postoperative day, she developed some respiratory
distress, and she had to be urgently reintubated.  Around
this time, she also developed rapid atrial fibrillation that
was controlled with Amiodarone, and she had a five-second
period of asystole that spontaneously resolved.

Slow progress was made through several of the next days of
her hospitalization.  She was atrially paced for some time
while her Amiodarone was being loaded.  Her mediastinal chest
tube and [**Location (un) 1661**]-[**Location (un) 1662**] drains were discontinued on the third
postoperative day.  The following day, her Swan-Ganz catheter
was removed, and the day after that, her pleural chest tube
was removed.

The remainder of the patient's 12 days in the Intensive Care
Unit were occupied with a very long and difficult ventilator
wean.  On multiple occasions, she had copious, thick, white
secretions that had to be suctioned.  In addition, on her
13th postoperative day, [**6-26**], she had an episode of
plugging that required that her endotracheal tube be
unclogged with the passage of [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] catheter.  Two days
after this, the patient required an emergent bronchoscopy
where a copious amount of mucus and clot was retrieved from
her pulmonary tree.  Finally the patient was extubated on
[**2188-7-2**].  After that time, she maintained her own
airway without problems.

Soon thereafter, she was transferred to the hospital where
preparations were made for her transfer to rehabilitation.
The remainder of the patient's hospitalization is dictated by
systems.

1.  Neurologic:  The patient was intubated and sedated with a
Fentanyl and Versed drip.  Once she was extubated, the
patient had occasional episodes of anxiety that were
adequately managed with oral Ativan.  In general the patient
was an awake, alert, oriented, and responsive, and is
appropriately involved in her own care.

2.  Cardiovascular:  The patient had multiple episodes of
rapid atrial fibrillation while in the Intensive Care Unit.
She was loaded on intravenous Amiodarone and was subsequently
switched to Amiodarone via her tube feed.  In addition, she
received Lopressor after her episodes of paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation continued.  The decision was made to
anticoagulated her.  She was started on a Heparin drip on
postoperative day #14.  Upon arriving on the hospital floor
approximately a week later, this was weaned to off, and she
was started on a Coumadin regimen.  At the time of transfer,
the patient had been in sinus rhythm for several days, but it
was felt that her anticoagulation should continue until we
demonstrate that she is no longer at risk of developing
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

In addition on [**7-6**], there was a questionable episode of
ventricular tachycardia.  It was unsure whether or not this
was an artifactual element of the monitor.  She may or may
not have had a ten-beat run of ventricular tachycardia;
however, this spontaneously resolved, and we never observed a
recurrence.

3.  Pulmonary:  The patient had a very long, slow, difficult
ventilator wean that was complicated by multiple episodes of
thick mucus secretion and mucus plugging.  By the time the
patient arrived on the hospital floor, her chest x-ray
demonstrated no infiltrate and no increasing pulmonary
congestion.  There was a question as to whether or not she
may still be a bit hypervolemic, and for the few episodes of
increased work of breathing that she had on the floor, she
responded well to intravenous Lasix.  In addition, she was
maintained on an oral dose of Lasix.  It was unclear whether
or not she will need to continue this indefinitely as an
outpatient, but she will certainly need to be on it for at
least the next 7-10 days.

4.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was maintained on tube
feed through a ................. catheter while in the
Intensive Care Unit.  Once she was extubated, her
................. was removed.  She was evaluated by Speech
and Swallow who felt that she was capable of adequately
managing oral intake.  Her diet is currently a heart-healthy
diet that she is allowed to take with supervision.  Close to
her end of her Intensive Care Unit stay, it was noted that
she had gone several days without moving her bowels.  She was
given a very aggressive bowel regimen that included Magnesium
Citrate, Lactulose, and several enemas.  This gave her
copious diarrhea that required a mushroom rectal catheter.
Ultimately the diarrhea subsided after her first day on the
floor, and her rectal tube was removed.  Her stool became
more formed, and she was started on Colace.

5.  Genitourinary:  The patient kept a Foley catheter during
the entire time in the Intensive Care Unit.  It was removed
after approximately one day on the floor.  She is now able to
void spontaneously without any difficulty.

6.  Skin:  The patient has a small decubitus ulcer around the
area of her sacrum.  It is approximately 5-6 cm in diameter
and has two very small areas of superficial ulceration.  The
patient does not wish to be placed on an air mattress, as she
feels it limits her mobility and is aware that she needs to
be turned frequently and to keep off the small of her back
when at all possible.

7.  Infectious disease:  The patient had multiple regimens of
antibiotics while in the Intensive Car