Admission Date:  [**2187-1-27**]       Discharge Date: [**2187-2-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2154-12-10**]       Sex:  F

Service:  NEUROLOGY

The patient's initial hospital course was gathered from the
medical chart.  I was involved in her care from [**2-6**]
onward.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Per the initial neurology
consult notes, the patient is a 32 year old woman without
significant past medical history who presented with right
sided weakness.  She had fallen while ice skating
approximately one week prior to admission with brief loss of
consciousness.  In the intervening week she had intermittent
headaches and dizziness and went to an outside emergency
department reportedly several times.  CAT scans obtained were
reportedly normal.  On the day of admission at approximately
3:00 a.m. she awoke from sleep with right sided weakness.
She called her sister to discuss this.  Her sister also
thought that her speech was slurred and she called the
police.  The police found the patient at 5:00 a.m. with right
sided weakness, stool incontinence and appeared to have
fallen.  She was taken to [**Hospital3 7362**].  According to [**Hospital3 7900**] notes, the patient was alert and oriented and able
to follow commands, but had no verbal output and had
significant right sided weakness.  While there she also
vomited and was noted to be drooling.  She reportedly had a
normal head CT there.  She was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] and arrived at 5:15 p.m.,
approximately 14 hours from the time of onset of the
weakness.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Depression.

OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS:  Paxil 20 mg q.day, meclizine.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient works as an O.R. nurse [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Hospital1 1444**].  There is no tobacco use.
There is rare alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission temperature 98.6, blood
pressure 140/72, heart rate 105, respiratory rate 20, O2 sat
99 percent.  In general, the patient was noted to be obtunded
and barely arousable to voice.  She was able to open her eyes
to command at times.  She was not able to follow any other
commands.  There was no verbal output.  On HEENT exam there
was ecchymosis near the right eye.  Lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Heart exam showed her to be
tachycardiac with regular rhythm.  Abdomen was benign.
Extremities showed no edema.

On neurologic exam on admission, mental status: there was no
verbal output.  She was able to open her eyes to command, but
could not follow any other commands.  Cranial nerves: left
pupil was 5 mm, slightly larger than the right pupil at 4 mm.
Both pupils were briskly reactive to light.  She had
decreased abduction of the left eye on leftward gaze.  She
blinked to threat bilaterally.  There was a dense right
facial droop.  Gag was decreased.  She was unable to protrude
her tongue.  On motor examination the right arm had decreased
tone.  There was increased tone in the lower extremities
bilaterally.  She was reportedly able to move all four limbs
spontaneously, but much less so in the right upper and lower
extremities.  On sensory exam she withdrew strongly in the
lower extremities and the left upper extremity.  She had
decreased withdrawal in the right upper extremity.  Deep
tendon reflexes were 2+ in the left upper extremity and
decreased in the right upper extremity.  They were brisk in
both legs.  Toe was upgoing on the right and downgoing on the
left.  Coordination and gait were unable to be assessed.

IMPRESSION:  The initial impression at the time of her
arrival to [**Hospital3 **] was that she most likely had cranial
cervical vessel dissection with subsequent stroke, either in
the left MCA distribution or in the brain stem.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Neurologic.  The patient was taken for a stat MRI and MRA
of the brain.  MRI showed increased signal abnormality in the
left pons on DWI, flare and T2 weighted images.  This was
consistent with an acute versus subacute infarct.  The
infarct also involved part of the right pons.  On MRA there
was evidence of basilar artery thrombosis and absent flow in
the basilar artery.  Because of these findings and the
profound neurologic deficits, the patient was taken for
emergent angiogram.  This was performed via the right common
femoral artery.  Aortic arch angiogram showed good flow in
the internal carotid artery bilaterally.  There was good flow
in the anterior, middle and posterior cerebral arteries
bilaterally.  The left vertebral artery showed good flow in
the proximal and distal portions with attempted flow in the
proximal basilar artery, but with total occlusion of the
distal basilar artery.  There was some cross filling noted
from the left across to the right distal vertebral artery.
The right vertebral artery showed good flow in the proximal
portion.  There was irregularity in the distal right
vertebral artery with possible thrombosis in the distal
portion with extension into the basilar artery.  Collectively
these findings were strongly suspicious for dissection in the
distal right vertebral artery with clot propagation into the
basilar artery.  Due to the fact that at least 16 hours had
elapsed since the onset of the weakness until the time that
the angiogram was performed, thrombolysis or clot disruption
was not performed.  The patient was admitted to the neuro
intensive care unit for close neurologic monitoring.  The
patient was placed on a heparin drip in order to prevent
further clot propagation.  She was given IV fluids and
started on vasopressors to maintain her systolic blood
pressure to a goal of approximately 150 to 160 in an attempt
to improve cerebral perfusion.  The initial exams mostly note
that she had limited movements in the left upper and lower
extremities, but no movement in the right upper and lower
extremities.

On [**1-29**] the patient had an episode of decreasing
responsiveness, posturing of the left upper extremity and
clenching movements of the mouth.  The clinician at the time
thought this could be possibly consistent with a seizure.  An
EEG was performed which showed a suppressed slowed background
consistent with severe encephalopathy, but no signs of
seizure activity.  She had no further episodes like this.
Head CT at the time of the this episode showed
hypoattenuation in the pons, left greater than right,
consistent with her known infarct.  On approximately [**1-30**] she began to have decreased strength on the left side,
worse in the arm than in the leg.  Repeat MRI showed a more
clearly defined infarct in the left greater than right pons
without obvious extension.  There was perhaps a slight
increase in flow in the basilar artery.  The patient's
neurologic deficits appeared to have been at their worst on
approximately [**2-2**] at which time she was noted to be
unable to move her eyes, open her eyes or to move any of her
extremities.  She had posturing in response to noxious
stimuli. MRI on [**2-1**] showed no evidence of extension of
the infarct.

Since [**2-2**] the patient has shown slow, but steady,
improvement in her neurologic exam.  She initially regained
the ability to move her eyes in all directions most easily
and fully in up gaze and down gaze and leftward gaze with
slight decrease in right sided gaze.  She then recovered the
ability to move the left leg and has now regained limited
movement in the left arm.  On [**2-9**] the patient
reported a headache and given the fact that she was on
heparin, a stat head CT was performed which showed the known
infarct, but no signs of hemorrhage.  The vasopressors in the
form of Neo-Synephrine were gradually weaned off over several
days and were discontinued on [**2-8**] with no change in
her neurologic exam.  Heparin was continued with a goal PTT
between 50 and 70 with a goal of preventing further stroke
and clot propagation.  She was transitioned to Coumadin with
a goal INR between 2 and 3.  Coumadin will most likely be
continued for three to six months as to be determined by
neurologic followup.  She will also likely require vessel
imaging approximately three months from the time of the
stroke.  Overwhelmingly, the most likely etiology of her
stroke was traumatic rig