Admission Date:  [**2144-2-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2144-3-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2083-9-14**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CARDIOTHOR

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 60 year old
diabetic woman with a history of atypical chest pain with
recent presentation with congestive heart failure in [**2144-1-18**], now admitted after transfer from an outside hospital
with near syncope.  She reports being on diuretics for CHF
and was having a routine chest x-ray on [**2-19**] when she
collapsed.  She was found to be dehydrated and had pre-renal
azotemia.  She was admitted at that time and rehydrated.  ETT
done was positive for anterior lateral as well as inferior
ischemia.  Transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] at that time for cardiac catheterization.  Please see
cath report for full details.  She was found to have a
totally occluded RCA, 65% left main, some circumflex disease
and some distal LAD disease.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for type 2 diabetes
mellitus on insulin, fibromyalgia, anemia, obesity,
congestive heart failure with diastolic dysfunction,
restrictive lung disease, dyslipidemia, cataracts, gastritis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Prevacid 30 mg q.d., Glucophage
1000 mg b.i.d., amitriptyline 50 mg q.h.s., Neurontin 900 mg
q.h.s., hydrocodone 5/500 q.d. p.r.n., [**Doctor First Name **] 60 mg b.i.d.,
albuterol nebs p.r.n., Flovent two puffs b.i.d., lorazepam
0.5 to 1 mg p.r.n., aspirin 325 q.d., Effexor 10 mg q.d.,
enalapril 5 mg q.d., Lasix 40 mg b.i.d., Aldactone 25 mg
t.i.d., multivitamin one q.d., FiberCon q.d., calcium 600 mg
q.d., nystatin 5 cc swish and swallow q.i.d., Toprol 25 mg
q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were heart rate in the 70s
sinus rhythm, blood pressure 116/70, respiratory rate 16.
Lungs decreased anterior laterally with no wheezing.  Neck
was supple, no JVD.  Heart regular rate and rhythm, distant
heart sounds, no murmurs, gallops or rubs appreciated.
Extremities without bleeding, trace dorsalis pedis pulses, 1+
lower extremity edema.  Neuro alert and oriented times three.
Moves all extremities, 5/5 strength.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  As stated previously, the patient was
admitted and went for cardiac catheterization.  Please see
cath report for full details.  In summary, the cath report
showed an EF of 50%.  Left main 60%.  LAD 80% with diffuse
disease.  Circumflex 60%.  RCA totally occluded proximally
with left to right collaterals from LAD.  Following cath CT
surgery was consulted.  Patient was seen by CT surgery and
accepted for surgery.  On [**2-28**] she was brought to the
operating room.  Please see the operative report for full
details.  In summary, patient had coronary artery bypass
grafting times three with LIMA to LAD, saphenous vein graft
to OM and saphenous vein graft to RCA.  She tolerated the
operation and was transferred from the operating room to the
cardiothoracic intensive care unit.  At the time of transfer
patient had mean arterial pressure of 82, CVP 19, PAD 22.
Heart rate was sinus rhythm at 84 beats per minute.  She had
Neo-Synephrine 1 mcg per kg per minute and propofol 30 mcg
per kg per minute.

The patient had a poor cardiac index upon arrival in the
CSRU.  At that time she was initially given fluids without
response.  She was started on dobutamine with minimal
response.  Dobutamine was switched to milrinone with good
effect.  Patient did well over the next 24 hours.  On
postoperative day two patient's cardiac function had
significantly improved.  Milrinone was slowly weaned off.
Sedation was also minimized.  Patient's ventilatory status
continued to need support.  She was switched from IMV
ventilation to pressure support ventilation and slowly weaned
from the ventilator as well.  On postoperative day three all
cardioactive IV medications had been weaned to off.  Patient
was awake and was ventilating with minimal support from the
ventilator.  She was successfully extubated on the morning of
postoperative day three.

Over the next several days the patient remained in the
intensive care unit.  Neurologically she was oriented,
however, she remained very lethargic and her respiratory
status merited continuous monitoring.  Therefore, she
remained in the intensive care unit.  Hemodynamically she
remained stable at that time.  On postoperative day six
patient's neurologic status had improved sufficiently and she
was transferred to the floor for continued postoperative care
and cardiac rehabilitation.  Patient was slow to progress
once on [**Hospital Ward Name 121**] 2, which is the cardiac surgery recovery floor.
Ten days after surgery she was noted to have redness in the
area of the distal sternal incision with minimal surrounding
erythema.  In addition, her leg wounds were noted to have
minimal erythema as well.  She was started on Kefzol for both
these wounds.  Legs were elevated when she was not
ambulating.  Despite these measures, the wounds continued to
worsen.  The chest wound developed increasing erythema with
an area of dry eschar at the distal pole.  The lower
extremities remained edematous with mild erythema surrounding
the saphenous vein graft sites.

Simultaneously a syncope workup was begun.  The patient was
seen by neurology and she had carotid ultrasound done.
Neurology recommendations were outlined and followed.
Carotid ultrasound showed right internal carotid stenosis of
60% to 69% and left carotid stenosis of less than 40%.  In
addition, [**Hospital **] clinic was consulted for treatment of
patient's diabetes.  On postoperative day 12 with the wounds
continuing to deteriorate, plastic surgery was asked to
consult on patient's chest wounds.  It was the feeling of the
plastics consult that the erythema of the chest wall was due
to ischemia and that cellulitis was secondary.  They had
decided at that time to pursue conservative treatment,
continuing patient's antibiotics, however, at that time they
were changed to Levaquin and vancomycin, despite the fact
that plastic surgery felt it was a sterile dehiscence.

Over the next two weeks the patient remained hospitalized,
waiting for her chest wound to develop and declare itself.
It remained an area of dry eschar.  By the end of the second
week a 4 cm x 2 cm area had opened on the right lateral side
of the chest wound with fibrinous drainage from that wound
margin.  The total area of the wound was about 4 cm x 9 cm of
dry eschar with another 4 to 5 cm of erythema surrounding the
wound.  Neurologically patient remained alert and oriented.
Cardiovascularly patient remained hemodynamically stable.
From a pulmonary standpoint patient had good air exchange
with good oxygen saturation.  From an infectious disease
standpoint, to this point patient has been culture negative
and afebrile with normal white blood cell count.  She remains
on vancomycin and Levaquin with adequate vancomycin levels.
From a GI standpoint patient is tolerating a diabetic cardiac
diet with blood glucoses in normal range on metformin, NPH
insulin and Humalog sliding scale.

It has been discussed between plastic surgery and
cardiothoracic surgery that appropriate care at this point
would be to allow patient to go to a rehabilitation setting
where she can continue her cardiac rehabilitation while
awaiting her sternal wound to further deteriorate, at which
point she will be sharp debrided +/- flap and skin graft
closure by plastic surgery.  On post-op day 26 it was decided
that patient could be transferred to rehabilitation while
continuing her antibiotics, waiting for her wound to further
dehisce, at which time she will be reconstructed by plastic
surgery.

At the time of transfer the patient's physical exam is as
follows.  Vital signs are temperature of 98.4, heart rate 94
sinus rhythm, blood pressure 123/58, respiratory rate 18, O2
92% in room air.  Weight preoperatively was 111.2 kg, at
discharge is 108.3 kg.  Alert and oriented times three.
Moves all extremities, follows commands.  Respiratory clear
to auscultation bilaterally, diminished somewhat on the left.
Heart regular rate and rhythm, S1, S2, no murmur.  Sternum
with positive click, has an area of eschar that is
approximately 9 x 6 cm in the distal [**11-22**] of her chest woun