Admission Date:  [**2145-8-26**]       Discharge Date:  [**2145-9-21**]


Service:

PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN:  [**Name10 (NameIs) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 85-year-old
female with a past medical history significant for paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation, asthma, seizure disorder, no prior
history of coronary artery disease (despite a positive
troponin I during the hospitalization two years ago), who was
admitted to the CCU following an episode of hypotension,
bradycardia, and hypercarbic respiratory distress requiring
intravenous inotropic support and intubation.

The patient was in her usual state of health when she
experienced a syncopal episode on [**8-26**].  She denied
an aura preceding the pain or loss of bowel or bladder
function.  She did note a brief period of disorientation
following the syncopal episode.  The patient was hypotensive
on arrival to the Emergency Department.  An electrocardiogram
was unremarkable for ischemia with the exception of new right
bundle branch block.  The patient experienced bradycardia
with decreased systolic blood pressure to the 70s.

CCU COURSE:  The patient was intubated, pressors were
utilized, and a temporary pacing wire was placed.  The
patient developed a fever, and Levaquin was started on
[**8-26**].  Vancomycin and Flagyl were initiated on
[**8-28**] for persistent febrile episodes.  Beta-blockers
were discontinued.  The patient experienced intermittent
episodes of the pacer wire not catching; the amplitude was
increased with good result.

Neurologic evaluation for autonomic seizures was obtained.
Infectious Disease was consulted for the persistent fevers on
[**9-1**]; however, blood cultures were negative from
[**2063-8-26**], and 25.  Urine culture were negative from
[**8-26**] and [**8-31**].  Sputum cultures from
[**9-1**] demonstrated 1+ gram-positive cocci which ended
up growing sparse oropharyngeal organisms.  Previous sputum
cultures from [**8-27**] and [**8-30**] also demonstrated
rare oropharyngeal organisms.  Catheter tip was cultured from
[**9-2**], [**9-3**], [**9-5**], and [**9-16**]
which were all negative for growth.  There was a potential
retrocardiac infiltrate on chest x-ray worrisome for
pneumonia.  A transesophageal echocardiogram and abdominal CT
were negative.  Line serology was negative.  The most likely
etiology for the patient's sepsis was from a line infection;
however, no objective evidence could be obtained to support
this.  The patient was started on Ceftriaxone to cover Lyme
disease, and Levaquin and Flagyl were discontinued on
[**9-3**].

The patient was weaned off Levophed on [**9-4**], but
Dopamine was continued.  The pacer was changed on [**9-3**].  Digoxin was initiated on [**9-4**], and pressors were
finally weaned off completely on [**9-6**].  On [**9-9**],
the patient was transferred to the floor to finish her course
of antibiotics, and the patient was to have a permanent
pacemaker placed upon negative blood cultures times 72 hours.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Seizure disorder; absence
seizures, last seizure ten years ago.  2.  Asthma.  3.
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.  4.  Breast cancer status
post right mastectomy in [**2107**], status post radiation.  5.
Recurrent osteomyelitis status post sternotomy in [**2140**].  6.
Chronic right pleural effusion status post pleurodesis.  7.
Osteoporosis.  8.  Spinal stenosis.  9.  Status post left hip
arthroplasty.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Acetaminophen p.r.n.,
................... 10 mg h.s. p.r.n., Heparin drip, Ativan
p.r.n., Reglan p.r.n., Ceftriaxone IV q.24 hours, Vancomycin
750 mg IV q.18 hours, Combivent 1-2 puffs, Depakote 750 mg
p.o. b.i.d., Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.o.d., Aspirin 325 mg
p.o. q.d., Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d., Morphine Sulfate q.4
hours p.r.n., Peri-Colace p.r.n., Magnesium Oxide 800 mg p.o.
b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  THE PATIENT GETS TREMULOUSNESS WITH AMIODARONE.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her daughter.  [**Name (NI) **]
history of alcohol or tobacco usage.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient has two healthy daughters.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  The patient was a
chronically ill-appearing female in no acute distress lying
supine in bed with head at 10?????? on the bed.  Vital signs:
Temperature 96.3??????, blood pressure 116/70, heart rate 80,
respirations 20, oxygen saturation 97% on 2 L nasal cannula.
HEENT:  Sclerae anicteric.  Normocephalic, atraumatic.
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodation.
Extraocular movements intact.  Moist mucous membranes.
Oropharynx clear.  Tongue midline.  Neck:  No jugular venous
distention.  Supple.  Full range of motion.  No thyromegaly.
No lymphadenopathy.  Carotids without bruits.  Carotid pulses
2+ bilaterally.  Chest:  Well-healed sternal scar and flap.
Anteriorly breath sounds were clear.  No dullness to
percussion anteriorly.  Posteriorly the patient had dullness
to percussion on the left side, one-third up the lung field.
Rales were present on the left greater than the right.  No
wheezes or rhonchi appreciated.  Cardiovascular:  No RV
heave.  PMI nondisplaced.  S1 and S2.  No S3 or S4.  There
was a 2 out of 6 systolic crescendo-decrescendo late-peaking
systolic murmur appreciated at the right upper sternal
border.  The patient has a second 2 out of 6 holosystolic
murmur located at the apex.  No rubs appreciated.  Abdomen:
Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.  No
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities:  There was significant
bilateral upper extremity swelling present.  Pneumatic
compression boots were in place.  The patient has 2+ pitting
edema of the lower extremities.  There was no cyanosis.
Dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses were 2+
bilaterally.  Neurological:  Cranial nerves were significant
only for decreased hearing in the left and right ears.  Toe
extension, toe flexion, ankle extension, and ankle flexion
were 5 out of 5 bilaterally.  Grasp strength was 5 out of 5
bilaterally.  Quadriceps reflex was 2+ bilaterally.
Finger-to-nose testing was clumsy.  Rapid-finger movements
were slow.  Alternating wrist (supination/pronation) was
slow.

LABORATORY DATA:  On transfer white blood cell count was 9.6,
hematocrit 29.3, platelet count 383; sodium 133, potassium
3.9, chloride 96, bicarb 27, BUN 36, creatinine 1.3, glucose
169; PT 14.6, PTT 79.1, INR 1.5; albumin 1.9; Digoxin 1.5;
calcium 7.7, magnesium 1.8, phosphate 4.9.

LABORATORY DATA ON DISCHARGE:  WBC 6.3, hematocrit 34.0,
platelet count 285; sodium 143, potassium 4.1, chloride 92,
bicarb 39, BUN 42, creatinine 1.2, glucose 81, magnesium 1.9;
PTT, PT, and INR were pending on the day of discharge, INR on
the day prior to discharge was 3.4.

STUDIES:  1.  Video swallow on [**2145-9-14**], demonstrated
aspiration with thin liquids which was effectively countered
by bolus and chin tuck.  Premature spillage with retention in
................... and piriform sinuses which had
effectively been cleared with dry swallow.  2.  Lateral
decubitus film on [**2145-9-16**], showed a moderate sized
left pleural effusion with only partial layering was
demonstrated.  Incidentally a coarse trabeculation of the
right clavicle was observed on this film.  3.  A right
clavicular x-ray on [**2145-9-17**], demonstrated mid and
distal clavicular cortical thickening, coarsened trabeculae
which would be consistent with Paget's disease.  4.
Transesophageal echocardiogram on [**2145-9-3**],
demonstrated mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy with
normal cavity size and systolic function with an ejection
fraction of greater than 55%.  The left atrium was dilated,
and there was no evidence of atrial thrombus in the atrial
appendage.  Of note, there was mild 1+ mitral regurgitation
and mild 1+ aortic regurgitation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiovascular:  Rhythm:  The patient
was found to be bradycardiac on admission.  A temporary pacer
was placed.  Bradycardia was thought to be secondary to over
beta-blockade.  The patient's bradycardia continued with an
underlying rhythm of atrial fibrillation.  The patient had a
permanent pacemaker placed on [**2145-9-13**], without
complications.  Of note, the patient underwent an atrial