Admission Date: [**2132-7-28**]        Discharge Date: [**2132-8-6**]

Date of Birth:  [**2075-4-19**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CME


This dictation summary covers through [**2132-8-5**].

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 57 year old
male with a past medical history of coronary artery disease,
status post anterior myocardial infarction ([**2130**]), with
ischemic cardiomyopathy (ejection fraction less than 20
percent), status post ICD placement, who presents to an
outside hospital with the chief complaint of chest discomfort
and shortness of breath on [**2132-7-25**].  The patient was
admitted for congestive heart failure exacerbation and rule
out myocardial infarction.  Of note, the patient was
discharged from the [**Hospital3 417**] Hospital approximately one
week prior to this admission.  He had been treated there for
congestive heart failure exacerbation and was noted to have
an approximately fifteen by twenty pound weight gain above
his dry weight of 170 pounds at the time of discharge.  The
patient experienced progressive shortness of breath over the
week prior to readmission with acute increase over the day
prior to admission.  His chest pain was relieved by one
sublingual Nitroglycerin after approximately twenty minutes.
Initial electrocardiogram showed no changes though the
patient did rule in by cardiac enzymes.  His CKs at the
outside hospital were 165, 248, 191, 153 and 357 with MB of
11.8, 14.1, 6.9, 3.0 and 30.8 and troponin of 2.1, 9.7, 8.1,
5.2 and 19.54.  The patient was maintained on intravenous
Heparin, intravenous Nitroglycerin drip, was given Aspirin
and was noted to develop increasing respiratory distress.  A
CT angiogram was obtained and did not demonstrate any
evidence of pulmonary embolus.  Given the patient's worsening
shortness of breath, he was given Lasix and became
hypotensive to the 70/50.  His Nitroglycerin drip was
discontinued and he was started instead on a Dopamine drip
and was given 500cc of normal saline, at which point he
developed acute pulmonary edema and required intubation for
respiratory failure.  A Swan-Ganz catheter was placed at the
outside hospital and revealed CVPs of 12 to 17 with a
pulmonary artery of 50/30 and pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure of 13/23, cardiac output of 3.0 and index of 2.0.
The patient was also started on empiric antibiotics for
possible pneumonia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, status post
anterolateral myocardial infarction in [**2130-12-15**].  The
patient underwent cardiac catheterization which revealed left
anterior descending coronary artery with diffuse 30 percent
proximal stenosis, a mid 100 percent occlusion with extensive
thrombus, D1 with 90 percent stenosis at the origin and a
left circumflex with 30 percent proximal/ostial stenosis, 40
percent midstenosis and 30 percent left PVA stenosis.  Right
coronary artery was nondominant vessel and had only mild
luminal irregularities.  The patient underwent successful
thrombectomy and percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty plus stenting of the left anterior descending
coronary artery with overlapping stents (Hepacoat) times
four.  The patient underwent a rest MIBI on COOL-MI Protocol
in [**2131-5-15**], which demonstrated severe anteroapical, apical
lateral and apical defects as well as moderate septal
defects.

The patient has an ischemic cardiomyopathy and is maintained
on Coumadin anticoagulation.  Echocardiogram in [**2131-6-14**],
demonstrated an ejection fraction less than 20 percent with
severe global hypokinesis.

The patient is status post ICD placement.  After the patient
received two to three discharges of the ICD for ventricular
tachycardia, the patient was given additional medical
management with initially Amiodarone which he did not
tolerate well (secondary to nausea and vomiting) and was
admitted in [**2132-6-14**], for Dofetilide initiation.

Congestive heart failure - Dry weight is approximately 170
pounds.  The patient is maintained at home on p.o. Lasix
regimen of 160 mg twice a day.

Gastrointestinal bleed in [**2130**], while on Coumadin, following
his myocardial infarction. The patient has not had a
gastrointestinal workup to evaluate the source of that
hemorrhage.

Cerebrovascular accident in [**2130-2-14**] (while off Coumadin)
with residual dysarthria and left sided deficit.

Multiple sclerosis.

Nephrotic syndrome.

Hypothyroidism.

Plantar fasciitis.

Sciatica.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lopressor 25 mg once daily.
2. Tizanidine 4 mg four times a day.
3. Aspirin 325 mg once daily.
4. Zetia 10 mg once daily.
5. Protonix 40 mg once daily.
6. Lasix 160 mg twice a day.
7. Levothyroxine 75 once daily.
8. Carbidopa/Levodopa 25/100.
9. Warfarin 7.5 mg once daily.
10.      Oxycodone p.r.n.
11.      Dofetilide 250 mg twice a day.
12.      Lisinopril 2.5 mg once daily.
13.      Lipitor 80 mg once daily.


ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a bus driver.  He is married
and has four children.  He does not smoke, does not consume
alcohol and denies intravenous drug abuse.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, temperature is 101.6,
blood pressure 103/51 on Dopamine, heart rate 100,
respiratory rate 16, the patient is ventilated on AC with a
tidal volume of 600 and respiratory rate 16.  The last
arterial blood gas on those settings revealed a pH 7.54, pCO2
of 35, pO2 358 and bicarbonate of 30.  The patient was found
lying flat, sedated, intubated.  Conjunctiva and sclera
anicteric.  The pupils are equal, round and reactive to light
and accommodation.  The patient has a right internal jugular
Swan in place.  The internal jugular site is nonindurated and
nonerythematous.  There are coarse bilateral inspiratory and
expiratory breath sounds anterolaterally.  Cardiac
examination is limited by these breath sounds.  The patient
is observed to have regular rate and rhythm.  The abdomen is
soft.  There is no involuntary guarding.  Extremities showed
two plus pitting edema to the knee.  There were no rashes.
Neurologic examination is limited.  The patient is sedated.
He is moving all four extremities spontaneously and has
normal tone.  The patient has trace dorsalis pedis and
posterior tibial pulses.  He does have two plus femoral
pulses without any bruits and has no carotid bruits
appreciated.

LABORATORY DATA:  Initial electrocardiogram showed sinus
tachycardic rhythm of 100 with left axis deviation, primary
delay, Q waves in leads I, aVL, and V3 to V4 with J point 3.0
to 4.0 millimeter ST segment elevations in V2 to V4.  There
is poor R wave progression.  The patient is also noted to
have left atrial abnormality and left ventricular
hypertrophy.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Respiratory failure - The patient was
initially mechanically ventilated.  The source of his
respiratory failure is believed to be a combination of
congestive heart failure exacerbation as well as a left sided
pneumonia.  Initial chest films demonstrate left lower lobe
consolidation as well as perihilar infiltrates and bilateral
pleural effusions.  Sputum gram stain and culture grew out
two plus gram positive cocci, one plus gram positive rods
which were thought to be consistent with oropharyngeal flora
and there were greater than 25 polymorphonuclears on gram
strain.  The patient was initially started on broad spectrum
Vancomycin, Ceftriaxone and Flagyl and later was switched
over to Levofloxacin and Flagyl to complete a ten day
antibiotic course.  The patient was extubated on the
[**2132-7-29**], successfully.  He subsequently required positive
pressure noninvasive ventilation on several occasions though
with further diuresis was able to be transitioned to
supplemental oxygen via nasal cannula.  At the time of this
dictation, he has been weaned down to two liters via nasal
cannula.

Congestive heart failure exacerbation/cardiogenic shock - The
patient has required pressors throughout the period of this
dictation.  He was initially maintained on Dopamine and had
cardiac output in the 5.0 to 6.0 range with indices in the
2.5 to 3.0 range and SCRs in the 700 to 1000 range.  SCR was
subsequently noted to increase significa