Admission Date:  [**2141-8-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2141-9-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2068-3-31**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CAR [**Last Name (un) **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 73 year old with a
history of coronary artery disease status post CABG in [**2120**]
and also a history of severe mitral regurgitation with atrial
fibrillation, severe cardiomyopathy with EF of approximately
10%.  Patient was admitted to the medicine service on
[**8-24**] with congestive heart failure.  Despite medical
care, patient made very little progress and subsequently was
evaluated by cardiac surgery and underwent high risk mitral
valve replacement operation on [**2141-9-7**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, mitral
regurgitation, atrial fibrillation, diabetes mellitus,
congestive heart failure, chronic renal failure, anemia.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient was noted on admission to be
awake and appropriate neurologically with decreased breath
sounds at bilateral bases to suggest some failure.  Patient
was tachycardiac with irregular heart beat.  Abdomen was
soft, nondistended, nontender, positive bowel sounds.
Extremities had no evidence of edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On [**9-7**] patient underwent mitral valve
repair with a porcine valve and tolerated the procedure well.
The mitral replacement was a 29 mm [**Doctor Last Name **] porcine tissue
heart valve through a right thoracotomy.  Postoperatively
patient was transferred to the cardiac surgery recovery unit
and required epinephrine drip, Levophed drip, milrinone drip,
propofol drip, insulin drip and intra-aortic balloon pump.
With all these supports patient was able to have cardiac
output of 5.8 and cardiac index of 3.3.  Given patient's low
ejection fraction and poor risk for operation, patient's
drips were turned down very slowly.  Intra-aortic balloon
pump support was also turned down very slowly.  Nevertheless,
on post-op day three patient's pressor drips, which included
Levophed, epinephrine, milrinone and intra-aortic balloon
pump were all able to be turned off and the balloon pump was
discontinued.  Without these supports patient's cardiac
output was 4.9 with index of 2.77 on post-op day four.

On post-op day six the pulmonary artery catheter was
discontinued as well as the Foley catheter.  Initial plan was
to have EPS place a pacer for her arrhythmia which was a/fib.
On [**9-14**] patient was suddenly hypotensive and severely
acidotic which required her to go back on pressors which
included Levophed, Neo-Synephrine, propofol as well as
dopamine.  Patient was also given multiple amps of bicarb to
correct her acidosis.  Moreover, her renal failure acutely
decompensated which, at one point, made her not only
oliguric, but also anuric for a few hours.  Patient was
quickly placed on broad spectrum antibiotics.  Given
patient's history of a/fib, suspicion was made that perhaps
patient had ischemic bowel or mesentery ischemia.  General
surgery was then consulted who agreed that patient was at
high risk for mesenteric ischemia and given her clinical
picture, this may, indeed, be the diagnosis.  Therefore,
patient was taken to the operating room and underwent
exploratory laparotomy which, unfortunately, did not show any
signs of ischemic bowel or any other intra-abdominal
pathology to explain her sudden decompensation.

At this point the nephrology service was also consulted and
they placed patient on CVVHD to help control her acidosis as
well as her renal decompensation.  Two days later her culture
returned gram negative rods in her blood, also gram negative
rods in the sputum.  Eventually these gram negative rods
turned out to be Enterobacter which was sensitive to the
antibiotics she was placed on.  She was placed on Zosyn,
gentamicin and vancomycin.  In the next day or so her
clinical condition actually improved with her creatinine
discomfort from as high as 3 to 1.7 and she was making an
adequate amount of urine, up to 1700 cc per day.  Moreover
her pressor drips were able to come down very slowly.

On [**9-18**] suddenly patient once again decompensated.  Her
urine output decreased.  Moreover her acidosis returned and
her white count suddenly increased again to the 30s.  Patient
underwent ultrasound which revealed thickened gallbladder
wall, pericholecystic fluid and sludge in the gallbladder,
all of which could be explained from previous laparotomy as
well as her septic physiology.  However, given the fact that
we had no obvious source of her bacteremia, general surgery
made the decision to reexplore her in the operating room.  On
[**9-18**] patient was taken back to the operating room of
reexploration of her abdomen.  Intraoperatively once again
there was no obvious pathology found, however, a
cholecystostomy tube was placed given the fact that patient
had the ultrasound which suggested that she may have
cholecystitis and she does have evidence of stones.
Postoperatively, however, patient did not improve clinically
and continued to require tremendous amounts of pressors which
included dopamine at 10, Levophed at 0.5, milrinone at 0.5,
Neo at 10, Pitressin at 0.1.

The next few days patient did not show any signs of
improvement whatsoever.  Her extremities became more and more
mottled secondary to the tremendous amount of pressor agents
that she was on.  Despite adding fluconazole to her
antibiotic regimen, patient did not improve.  In fact, her
blood pressure consistently dropped, requiring going up on
the pressors.  On [**9-21**] epinephrine was added to her
pressor agents.  This, too, did not help her blood pressure.
Her blood pressure remained very tenuous in the high 70s
systolic blood pressure.

On[**9-22**], patient's family met with the attending,
Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **], and discussed her poor prognosis.  Family
agreed at that point to make patient DNR and agreed to no
escalation of her treatment.  On [**9-22**] at 7:00 p.m.
patient's vital signs began to drop and she expired at
exactly 7:00 p.m. on [**2141-9-22**].  At this point the
family was contact[**Name (NI) **] and was notified, specifically [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **]
[**Known lastname **], patient's brother, was notified, who, unfortunately,
did not agree to a post mortem autopsy.  Moreover the
attending, Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] [**Last Name (Prefixes) **], was also notified.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Patient expired.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Patient expired.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1.  Congestive heart failure with low ejection fraction.
2.  Sepsis.
3.  Multiple organ failure including lung, kidney, liver.
4.  Status post mitral valve replacement.
5.  Status post exploratory laparotomy times two.






                          [**Doctor Last Name 412**] [**Last Name (Prefixes) 413**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 414**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 20292**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2141-9-22**]  19:52
T:  [**2141-9-29**]  14:19
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
