Admission Date:  [**2107-7-10**]       Discharge Date:  [**2107-7-26**]


Service:

ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:  Status post cardiac arrest

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 89 year old woman
with a history of atrial fibrillation, pulmonary
hypertension, gastrointestinal bleed with chronic anemia,
chronic renal insufficiency who had been complaining at home
of lower back pain.  On the morning of admission her daughter
was helping her to the bathroom when the patient collapsed
without breathing, without pulse.  Daughter and [**Name2 (NI) 802**]
initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation and Emergency Medical
Services were called.  Emergency Medical Services arrived and
placed an automated external defibrillator which determined a
shockable rhythm.  She received one shock of 200 joules which
converted her to a pulseless electrical activity rhythm.  She
was given Atropine and a second shock and went into an atrial
fibrillation rhythm with a rapid ventricular response.  The
patient was started on Lidocaine drip and was transferred to
the [**Hospital6 256**] Emergency Room.
Total time pulseless was approximately 15 minutes.  The
patient arrived to the Emergency Room in rapid atrial
fibrillation with a blood pressure in the 80s and was started
on intravenous fluids.  Initial electrocardiograms showed no
significant ST or T wave changes.  Her first CK was 48, her
component was 2.7, her potassium was 2.5.  At this time it is
felt likely that she had suffered a primary arrhythmia
leading to her arrest.  The patient was not taken to the
Catheterization Laboratory but was admitted to the Coronary
Care Unit for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Atrial fibrillation for which she is
on Amiodarone.  She has a history of a congestive heart
failure with an echocardiogram in [**2107-1-31**] showing
concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with an ejection
fraction of 50%.  She had biatrial enlargement, moderate
mitral regurgitation and severe pulmonary hypertension.  She
also had a history of chronic anemia.  She has a history of a
gastrointestinal bleed in [**2107-3-31**] which was felt to be
due to a gastric arteriovenous malformation.  She also has
chronic thrombocytopenia with a baseline platelet count of
about 80,000.  She also has chronic renal insufficiency.  Her
baseline creatinine is approximately 1.4.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1.  Aspirin 81 mg q.d.
2.  Toprol XL 25 mg q.d.
3.  Zestril 40 mg q.d.
4.  Prilosec 20 mg q.d.
5.  Multivitamin one tablet q.d.
6.  Amiodarone 200 mg q. day

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her family, she has a
homemaker.  She walk with a cane.  She does not have a
history of tobacco and she occasionally uses alcohol.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission her vital signs were
temperature of 98.6, heartrate 109, blood pressure 130/78,
breathing 24 times per minute.  She was vented on assist
control, 500 cc by 12 with 60% FIO2 and positive
end-expiratory pressure of 5.  Initial examination was an
elderly intubated woman who was sedated.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat examination showed her to be normocephalic,
atraumatic with bilateral surgical pupils.  Neck examination
was supple with no jugulovenous distension appreciated.
There was no lymphadenopathy noted.  Cardiac examination
showed a right ventricular heave.  It was irregularly
irregular with S1 and S2 and S3 murmur.  Her chest
examination was clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Her
abdomen was soft and distended but nontender.  There were
bowel sounds in all four quadrants.  She was guaiac positive
from below.  Her extremities showed trace peripheral edema.
There were 2+ pulses bilaterally.  Neurological examination:
She was intubated and sedated.  There was no spontaneous
movement noted.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her laboratory data on admission showed a
white count of 14.4, hematocrit of 33.4, platelets of 83.
Chem-7 showed sodium of 146, potassium 2.5, chloride of 107,
bicarbonate 18, BUN 19 and creatinine 1.5 with a glucose of
140.  Her INR was 2.0, her PTT was 37.2.  Initial CK was 48
with a negative MB and a troponin of 2.7.  Urinalysis
revealed no red cells, no white cells and no casts.  Chest
x-ray on admission showed cardiomegaly with a calcified
aorta.  Electrocardiogram showed an atrial fibrillation with
a rapid ventricular response and infrequent ectopy.  She
received a chest and abdominal computerized tomography scan
showing no aortic aneurysm.  There was no dissection but
there was a small right pleural effusion.  Head computerized
tomography scan showed periventricular white matter changes
but no acute bleed.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Coronary
Care Unit for further management.  CKs were cycled and were
negative.  The patient did not go for cardiac catheterization
as this was felt to be a primary arrhythmogenic event.  The
patient had her potassium repleted by both p.o. and
intravenous replacement with a rapid rise in potassium to 3.5
on the first day of admission.  The patient had an arterial
blood gases with pH of 7.34, pCO2 of 41, pO2 of 273 on the
above mentioned settings.  The patient was started on
Thiamine and Folate.  She as switched to Captopril and her
Lopressor increased and converted to a normal sinus rhythm by
day #2 of her admission.  The patient remained breathing over
the vent by one to two breaths per minute.  The patient
underwent bedside electroencephalogram to evaluate for neural
activity as well as potential seizure activity.  Initial
electroencephalogram readings suggested that she was having
seizure activity and on hospital day #2 went into a
nonconvulsive status epilepticus status.  The patient was
loaded on Phenobarbital with continuation of the status.  I
received two additional loads of Phenobarbital with a goal
level of greater than 40 which eventually started to break
her status epilepticus.  She did continue to have episodes of
epileptiform activity on her bedside electroencephalogram and
so Valproate was added to her regimen at that point.  With
therapeutic levels of Valproate and Phenobarbital she was
felt to have control of her epileptic activity.  In addition
to the epileptiform activity the bedside electroencephalogram
revealed significant anoxic encephalopathy.  At this point it
was felt that further neurological recovery was unlikely and
a family meeting was called to determine what the future
goals of care should be.  After extensive discussions with
the family it was felt that the patient would want to be
continued on longterm care as long as life was viable.  As a
result the plan was made for percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy and tracheostomy which initially was held up due
to elevated INRs which corrected slowly with the addition of
Vitamin K.  The patient was started on tube feeds which she
tolerated well.

On [**7-25**], showing no further epileptiform activity and with
a corrected INR the patient had a percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy and tracheostomy tube placed.  She has remained
cardiovascularly stable with blood pressures running 110 to
150, well controlled on antihypertensives.  Her Lidocaine as
previously mentioned was discontinued on day #2.  She has had
no further significant ectopic activity.

1.  Cardiovascular - A.  Arrhythmia, the patient was felt to
have a primary arrhythmia due to hypokalemia in the setting
of pre-existing structural heart disease.  It is not felt
that this was an ischemic event and with the corrected
potassium she has had no further ectopic activity.  It was
elected to defer any further electrophysiologic study at this
time given the approximate cause of a low potassium.
B.  Coronary artery disease, patient with a history of
coronary artery disease but does not seem to have had an
acute coronary spasm.
C.  Pump status, the patient with a relatively preserved
ejection fraction at this time.  She has continued to perfuse
will throughout her hospital stay here, occasionally
requiring a small Lasix dose.  She was started on 40 mg p.o.
Lasix on [**7-24**].

2.  Pulmonary status - The patient is currently on a
ventilator at assist control with title volumes of 500 set at
10 times 10 breaths per minute with an FIO2 of