Admission Date:  [**2178-1-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2178-1-27**]


Service:  BLUE GENERAL SURGERY

The dictating physician was not present for the history and
physical.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 78 year-old
woman complaining of a three day history of right lower
quadrant pain with nausea and vomiting associated with fevers
and diarrhea times one day.  The pain increased the night
prior to admission with some back pain.  No bright red blood
per rectum.  The patient presented to an outside hospital
where the white blood cell count was 25.5000 and with 3
bands.  Creatinine was 1.5, triglycerides were 38.  Unasyn
was given.  The patient was transferred to the [**Hospital1 346**] for surgical evaluation.  A CT scan
shoed a phlegmon in the right lower quadrant with a question
of a perforated cecal carcinoma versus appendiceal abscess
versus perforated diverticulum.  Also masses were seen in the
left liver lobe.  The patient has no prior colonoscopy.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery
disease status post a percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty with stent placement in 7/00.  Echocardiogram at
that time showed decreased systolic function.  Insulin
dependent diabetes mellitus.  Hypertension, status post pacer
placement in [**2176**].  Status post exploratory laparotomy with
resultant TAH/BSO for a large right ovarian cystadenoma in
[**2177-2-20**].  Claudication.

MEDICATIONS:  Pletal 100 mg b.i.d., Diovan 80 mg po q.d.,
Atenolol 25 mg po q.d., Lasix 40 mg po b.i.d., NPH 87 mg
q.a.m., 80 units q.p.m.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Negative for carcinoma.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Not recorded.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Not recorded.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient's temperature is 99.4.
Blood pressure 135/53.  Heart rate 104, which is paced.
Respiratory rate 32.  Sating 86% on room air, 93% on 2
liters.  Examination ill appearing elderly woman.  Anicteric
sclera.  Mucous membranes dry.  Tachycardic with a regular
rhythm.  Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdominal examination was soft, distended, tender, right
lower quadrant mass with guarding.  Negative [**Doctor Last Name 515**] sign.
Healed scar.  No hernias.  No rebound.  The patient was heme
negative with brown stool.  Extremities showed no clubbing,
cyanosis or edema.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  Sodium 138, potassium 4.2,
chloride 102, bicarb 27, BUN 27, creatinine 1.2, glucose 141,
white count 20.8, hematocrit 35.9, platelets 159.  Liver
function tests were essentially within normal limits.  Her
urinalysis showed many bacteria.  Chest x-ray showed left
lower lobe atelectasis.  KUB showed no free air.  CT showed a
large right lower quadrant phlegmon contrast throughout the
colon with colonic wall thickening.  Electrocardiogram was
paced at 105 with no acute signs of ischemia or
electrocardiogram changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted for intravenous
fluid hydration.  She was kept NPO.  She was put on
Ampicillin, Ceftriaxone and Flagyl and given serial
examinations.  Early in the morning of hospital day number
two the patient was clinically deteriorating with worsening
abdominal examination, more distended, more tender and
dyspneic.  The patient was taken for emergent laparotomy and
exploration.  She was found to have a perforated appendix as
well as an intra-abdominal abscess in the Operating Room.
She had a right colectomy and a biopsies was made of the left
liver lobe.  Postoperatively, the patient remained intubated
and was sedated and brought to the Surgical Intensive Care
Unit.  She was maintained on antibiotics.  The patient was
acidotic with a pH of 7.29 while intubated postoperatively
CO2 48, PAO2 192, bicarb 24, base deficit of negative three.
Her central venous pressure was 4.  She was placed on an
insulin drip to maintain her blood sugars.  She was thought
to be septic.  No pressors were required to maintain her
blood pressure.

The patient began to improve by postoperative day number one.
 She was continued to be given aggressive intravenous
hydration.  Cardiology was consulted to assess her pacemaker
function and they stated that her pacemaker was working well
with no need for PM interrogation.  On postoperative day
number two an attempt was made to wean the patient off the
ventilator on that evening, which was failed.  The patient
was kept intubated, however, attempt again was made on the
following day and the patient was successfully extubated.
This time her vital signs continued to remain stable.  She
was transferred to the surgical floor.  On postoperative day
three the patient was diuresing adequately.  She was found to
be slightly dyspneic with some wheezing at the bases.  She
was given intravenous Lasix and her symptoms quickly
improved.  Diuresis was continued throughout postoperative
day three and postoperative day number four and the patient
did well clinically.  Her vital signs remained stable.  The
patient continued to do well.  On postoperative day five the
patient passed flatus and had a bowel movement and was
started on clear liquids.  On postoperative day number six
the patient was advanced to a regular diet.  Her vital signs
continued to remain stable and the patient was discharged to
rehab.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Status post sepsis and right colectomy and appendectomy.  Her
pathological results at the time of discharge were as yet not
available.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Pletal 100 mg po b.i.d., Diovan 80
mg po q.d., Atenolol 25 mg po q.d., Lasix 40 mg po b.i.d.,
NPH 87 units q.a.m., 80 units q.p.m., Percocet one to two
tabs po q 4 to 6 hours prn pain.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  The patient is discharged to rehab in
stable condition.  The patient will follow up with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **].






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2213**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 2214**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2649**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2178-1-27**]  09:50
T:  [**2178-1-27**]  10:03
JOB#:  [**Job Number 31830**]
