Admission Date:  [**2133-8-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2133-8-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2060-2-10**]       Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient is a 73-year-old female who
came into the [**Hospital6 256**] status
post respiratory distress.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73-year-old
female who came to the [**Hospital6 256**]
from her primary care physician's office with frothy sputum
production and respiratory distress.  In the Emergency Room,
the patient had a systolic for less than a minute.  The
patient was intubated in the Emergency Room and admitted to
the Medical Intensive Care Unit and transferred out to the
floor on [**8-15**].

Electrocardiogram on admission showed left bundle branch
block, QRS rate of 120, questionable changes of ST elevations
in V1-V3, and questionable old anterior myocardial
infarction.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Diabetes.  Hypertension.
...................  Status post total abdominal
hysterectomy.  L4-L5 herniation.  Urinary tract infection.
Fatty liver.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN AND BACTRIM.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Atenolol, Lipitor, Digoxin,
Cozaar, Klonopin, Vitamin E, Aspirin, Procardia, NPH, Lasix.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 23.4, hematocrit 42.5, platelet
count 387,000; PT, PTT, INR of 14, 30, and 1.3; CHEM7 of 136,
4.0, 96, 17, BUN and creatinine of 29 and 1.0, glucose 584,
anion gap 23; urinalysis was positive for some white cells
and some red cells; arterial blood gases on admission on 100%
oxygen was 7.08, 46, 52, then on 60% a little while longer of
7.23, 46 and 81.

Chest x-ray showed positive congestive heart failure and
question of pneumonia.  Electrocardiogram was concerning for
a QRS of 120, left bundle branch block, and questionable old
anterior myocardial infarction.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature 100.8??????, 75,
135/30, 100% oxygen.  General:  The patient was intubated.
The patient was in no acute distress.  She was oriented and
was squeezing fingers.  Raised toes on command.  HEENT:
Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Extraocular movements intact.
Questionable surgical pupils.  Oropharynx frothy.  Could not
assess JVP.  Chest:  Coarse breath sounds bilaterally.
Heart:  Tachycardia.  S1 and S2.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
and obese.  Extremities:  Trace edema of the legs.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for questionable urinary tract infection
and respiratory decompensation, as well as questionable
pneumonia, or question due to ischemia.

Cardiovascular:  The patient was stated on Aspirin,
Lopressor, and aggressive ............. to help with
diuresis.  The patient had evidence of a non-Q-wave
myocardial infarction with elevated troponins to 10.0 on
admission.  Echocardiogram in the Emergency Department showed
low to normal left ventricular function, no wall motion
abnormalities.

On [**8-7**] the patient was extubated but then had the
event of an increased temperature, was tachycardiac, and she
was respiratory distress.  On [**8-8**] the patient was
reintubated for this which was thought to be due to another
ischemic event.  The troponins at the time were greater than
50 x 3.  The patient was on Lopressor 37.5, Aspirin, Cozaar,
and Isordil.  The patient needs some sort of catheterization
work-up for question of why of the patient was so ischemic.

Pulmonary:  The patient was intubated as mentioned above with
questionable pneumonia on [**8-5**].  The patient was
started on Levofloxacin and Flagyl.  The patient also had
evidence of a urinary tract infection and was started on
Levofloxacin and Flagyl.  The patient was given a protime
pump inhibitor, as well as hematocrit checks, as well as LFTs
and DIC panels for the increased INR; however, these came
back negative.

Chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure and question of
pneumonia.  The patient was extubated on [**8-7**] but then
was reintubated on [**8-8**] because of respiratory
distress and chest x-ray showing increased right lower lobe
infiltrate with congestive heart failure versus pneumonia.
It was thought that the patient had flash pulmonary edema
from another ischemic event with a non-Q-wave myocardial
infarction with troponins greater than 50 x 3 and then was
started on Heparin and was discontinued because the patient
was stable.  The patient was reextubated on [**8-12**] with
repeat chest x-ray on [**8-13**] showing no pneumonia or
chronic.  The patient was started on Lasix 20 mg q.d. to keep
the patient dry, and the patient remained stable throughout
her stay.


Endocrine:  The patient had increased fingersticks and anion
gap.  The patient was started on Insulin.  The patient had
evidence of diabetes mellitus.  She was continued on a
regular Insulin sliding scale.

Infectious Disease:  On the unit, the patient had a fever and
increased white count of 23.4.  The patient was started on
Levofloxacin and Flagyl for a urinary tract infection, plus
or minus question of pneumonia.  The patient continued to
spike temperatures with a positive urinalysis growing
Klebsiella on [**8-8**].  Other than this, all other blood
cultures and sputum cultures were negative.  The patient was
started on a 14-day dose of Flagyl, as well as Levofloxacin.
The latest cultures are still pending from [**8-10**].

Hematocrit:  The patient's hematocrit on admission was 42.5
with a PT of 14 and INR of 1.3, fibrinogen of 409.  The
patient was not in DIC.  The patient's hematocrit was
dropping from an unknown etiology and was transfused 1 U of
packed red blood cells on [**8-7**].  Hematocrit remained
stable since transfusion.  The patient has been OB negative
and has been stable.

The patient was had renal insufficiency with excessive
diuresis in the unit; however, once the patient was
rehydrated, that remained clear.

Prophylaxis:  The patient was placed on a protime pump
inhibitor, as well as some subcutaneous Heparin.

The patient was transferred out to the floor on [**2133-8-14**], and was stable.

On discharge the patient was stable with good oxygen
saturations and no shortness of breath and no complaints of
chest pain or palpitations.

On discharge the patient's vitals signs were 98.9, 64, 28,
124/50. The patient was an obese, elderly woman, in no acute
distress.  Oropharynx clear.  Moist mucous membranes.
Regular, rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2.  Poor inspiratory
efforts throughout.  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Positive
bowel sounds.  Trace edema.

The patient's hematocrit was 31.7 and stable.  CHEM7 was
within normal limits.  BUN and creatinine was 20 and 1.7.

The patient was seen by Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation,
and it was decided that the patient would need some acute
rehabilitation.  The patient will follow-up with her primary
care physician in terms of the cardiac aspect in terms of
getting an outpatient catheterization.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient was stable on discharge.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Isordil 20 mg t.i.d., Aspirin 325 mg
q.d., Lopressor 50 mg b.i.d., Cozaar 50 mg q.d., Lasix 40 mg
q.d., Klonopin 1 mg t.i.d., NPH 10 and 20, Prilosec 40 mg
q.d., Nystatin swish and swallow, Boost t.i.d.

FOLLOW-UP:  The patient will follow-up with her primary care
physician and have further cardiac work-up as an outpatient.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Respiratory distress due to congestive
heart failure, pneumonia, and urinary tract infection.




                            DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) 11595**] 12-595

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6234**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2133-8-17**]  09:09
T:  [**2133-8-17**]  09:41
JOB#:  [**Job Number 17141**]
