Admission Date:  [**2149-9-2**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2081-3-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath, cough, increased
dyspnea on exertion.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 68 year old male with
a history of congestive heart failure and an ejection
fraction of 30 to 40%, status post three vessel coronary
artery bypass graft, likely chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, and a [**2149-5-25**] admission for pansensitive
Streptococcus pneumococcal pneumonia who presented yesterday
with shortness of breath for two days, a cough productive of
white sputum, chills, and increased dyspnea on exertion.  The
patient was in his usual state of health, able to walk ?????? mile
before becoming winded until three to four days ago when he
developed rhinorrhea and congestion.  Then one day later he
developed shortness of breath, cough, chills and increased
dyspnea on exertion.  He also commenced sharp, substernal
nonradiating chest pain which he rated 4 out of 10 in
intensity.  This pain was relieved with rest and worsened
with cough.  He did have one episode of dry heaves.  He
denied green or yellow sputum, hemoptysis or fevers.  Of
note, the patient has had poor dietary compliance of late,
eating a large Chinese food dinner three to four nights prior
to arrival.  He does deny paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and
new orthopnea, although at baseline he sleeps on four
pillows.  He does note one day of bilateral lower extremity
edema.  He has had good urine output by report and no changes
in medicine.

PAST MEDICAL/SURGICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease;
2.  Status post coronary artery bypass graft in [**2146-8-25**]
(left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending,
saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal of circumflex,
saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery); 3.
Congestive heart failure, [**2149-5-25**] ejection fraction of 30
to 40% with moderate mitral regurgitation, [**2146**] ejection
fraction of less than 20%; 4.  Anteroapical aneurysm; 5.
Silent myocardial infarction; 6.  Mild chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease; 7.  Left pneumothorax with chest tube
placement; 8.  Atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter; 9.
Hypertension; 10.  Head and neck cancer, status post
resection; 11.  Hodgkin's disease, Stage 4B with bone marrow
infiltration in [**2143**], underwent six cycles of ABVD, [**2144**]
torso computerized tomography scan and gallium scan were
negative as were bone marrow biopsy times two; 12.  Question
of Crohn's; 13. Nephrolithiasis; 14.  Mild chronic renal
insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 1.3; 15. Left
lower lobe pneumococcal pneumonia in [**2149-5-25**]; 16.
Hypothyroidism; 17.  Status post hernia repair 40 years ago.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  K-Dur 20 mEq p.o. b.i.d.
4.  Coumadin 3 mg p.o. Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and
Sunday, 2 mg p.o. Monday, Wednesday and Friday
5.  Synthroid 300 mcg p.o. q.d.
6.  Carvedilol 6.25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
7.  Cozaar 50 mg p.o. q.d.
8.  Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.
9.  Theophylline 300 mg p.o. q.h.s.
10. Dipentum  750 mg p.o. b.i.d.

The patient reports compliance with medications and no recent
change in medications.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  160 pack year history of smoking, quit 12
years ago, no alcohol use, no recreational drug use.  The
patient lives with his wife [**Name (NI) 3771**] in [**Name (NI) 3772**].  He owned a
travel agency company.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.2, heartrate 85, blood
pressure 111/66, oxygen saturation 92 to 96% on 5 liters by
face mask.  General:  Obese male in no acute distress on face
mask.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils are equal,
round, and reactive to light.  Mucous membranes dry.  No oral
lesions.  Neck:  Supple, full range of motion, no
jugulovenous distension appreciated.  Chest:  Bilateral
crackles at the bases, right greater than left.  Cardiac:
Distant heartsounds, regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and
S2, no murmurs, rubs or gallops appreciated.  Abdomen:
Distended, soft, nontender, some shifting dullness.
Extremities, trace pedal edema, no calf tenderness.  Other:
Foley catheter in place.  Two antecubital intravenous lines
in place.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission labs revealed sodium 136,
hemolyzed potassium 6.5, repeated 6.0, chloride 98,
bicarbonate 25, BUN 33, creatinine 2.0, glucose 108.  White
blood cell count 16.3, hematocrit 43.8, platelets 457, MCV
78, RDW 15.5.  Differential:  Neutrophils 59, bands 35,
lymphocytes 3, atypicals 2, PT 29.8, PTT 47.7, INR 5.9.
Cardiac enzymes, CK 110, CK MB 3, troponin I 3.2.  Sputum
culture:  Reddish brown in appearance.  Chest x-ray:  Right
middle lobe infiltrate, cardiomegaly.  Electrocardiogram, no
ST segment changes, no Q waves, rate 99, normal axis, normal
intervals.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  When the patient presented to the Emergency
Department he received an aspirin and because he was thought
to be in congestive heart failure he also received 100 mg of
Lasix intravenously spread out over two doses.  He also
received sublingual nitroglycerin paste.  This brought his
blood pressure in to the 90s, at which time the patient was
removed.  In the Emergency Department the patient also
received Ceftriaxone, 1 gm intravenously times one. He was
subsequently admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.

1.  Pulmonary - Because the patient was presumed to have
community-acquired pneumonia, by clinical presentation and
chest x-ray he was started on Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.
day.  He continued this regimen for the remainder of his
hospital stay and after discharge, such that he would
complete a 14 day course.  The patient was given Atrovent
metered dose inhalers initially q. 4 hours and then q. 6
hours and this appeared to help with his oxygen saturation
and dyspnea.  In addition he was placed on Albuterol prn
nebulizers and then metered dose inhalers.  His initial
oxygen requirement in the Intensive Care Unit was 12 liters
by face mask with an FIO2 of .5 and was subsequently weaned
from the face mask to a nasal cannula once on the floor.  His
oxygen requirement slowly improved while in-house, however,
his saturations frequently dropped while ambulating.

2.  Cardiovascular - For the patient's hypotension, he
received a 500 cc normal saline bolus over night long in the
Intensive Care Unit.  His systolic blood pressure improved to
the 100s, subsequently.  His Cozaar and Carvedilol were held
at that time but returned gradually over the next few days as
his pressures continued to rise to an appropriate level.  He
was also gently diuresed on Lasix approximately 20 mg
intravenously q.o.d.  His blood pressure was monitored for
the remainder of his inpatient stay and remains approximately
in the 1-teens/70s.  The patient was diuresed approximately
500 to 1000 cc per day.  For his atrial fibrillation/atrial
flutter, he was continued on Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.
In terms of septicemia the patient was negative CK times
three.  His initial troponin I was 3.2 and the following
troponin I was 1.7.  There were no electrocardiogram changes
and he experienced no chest pain while in the hospital.

3.  Infectious disease - The Gram stain of the patient's
sputum showed multiple organisms consistent with oral
pharyngeal Flora.  The sputum culture grew out oropharyngeal
organisms as well as moderate coagulase positive
Staphylococcus growth.  He remained afebrile for the
remainder of his inpatient stay and he was continued on his
14 day regimen of Levofloxacin 500 mg.

4.  Heme - As the patient's INR and PT were initially
elevated, his Coumadin was held until the INR began to drop.
As the INR began to normalize, the Coumadin was slowly
returned.  Of note, his PTT was elevated as were his
fibrinogen and haptoglobin.  His FDT and D-dimer were also
mildly elevated.  It was unclear how much of this was due to
mild DIC, how much due to acute phase reaction and how much
due to underproduction of coagulation factors by the liver.

5.  Oncology - Because the patient's PTT remained elevated
without explanation while in-house and because he had not
received regular follow up after his Hodgkin's disease an
oncology consult