Admission Date: [**2139-2-20**]        Discharge Date: [**2139-2-25**]

Date of Birth:  [**2081-3-16**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Nonfunctioning arteriovenous fistula.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 57-year-old male,
with end-stage renal disease, who presents for AV fistula
thrombectomy.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for CAD, history of an
inferior MI, CHF with an EF of 40%, peripheral vascular
disease, end-stage renal disease dialyzed on Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday, diabetes type 2, hypertension,
increased cholesterol, LAFB, BPH, history of MRSA, GERD,
prostatitis, frequent UTIs, history of bradycardia, recent
TMA.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Plavix 75 once daily, Prevacid 15 once
daily, captopril, insulin, Lipitor. Medication list not
complete preoperatively.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient was alert. Lungs were clear to
auscultation. Cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm.
Abdomen soft, nontender.

Patient was taken to the OR on [**2-20**] by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
for attempted left AV fistula thrombectomy for thrombosed AV
fistula.

BRIEF HISTORY/HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was brought to the
operating room during the case. Please see operative report
for details. During the case, a brachial pulse, a radial
pulse was not palpable. Anesthesia was checked with. They
noted that patient was in PEA arrest with blood pressure of
40/20 based on a right cuff. The graftotomy site was closed
with 7-0 Prolene. The skin incision was stapled, and ACLS was
begun. The patient was emergently intubated and received
epinephrine, calcium, bicarbonate, and his blood pressure
returned. He had pulses in his groin. A right femoral Quinton
catheter was quickly placed for both IV, as well as dialysis
access. A left femoral arterial line was placed, and a right
IJ triple-lumen was placed almost simultaneously. During
these times, the patient had received epinephrine, calcium.
During this time his blood pressure dropped, and his heart
rate dropped to the 40s. He received atropine and then
converted to ventricular fibrillation, receiving
cardioversion x3 with return of normal sinus rhythm. At this
time, he was started on epinephrine drip for a blood pressure
of 40/70 systolic range, and maintained in a normal sinus
rhythm. He was then transferred to the PACU in critical
condition. He was then transfused to the SICU.

A TTE was performed which showed severely dilated right
ventricle with severe global free wall hypokinesis was noted.
the left ventricular function was mildly depressed globally.
No evidence of dynamic LVOT obstruction was noted. The aorta
was intact. The left atrium was of normal size. No
spontaneous echo contrast or thrombus was seen in the body of
the left atrium, or the right atrium, or right atrial
appendage. No atrial septal defect was seen by 2-D or color
Doppler. Overall, the left ventricular systolic function was
mildly depressed. There was no mass or thrombus in the right
ventricle. There was mild aortic leaflet thickening. No
aortic valve stenosis. There was moderate thickening of the
mitral valve leaflet. EF was greater than 55%. Compared with
the findings of the prior study, images reviewed of [**2138-12-24**], there were no significant changes.

On EKG, there were inferior Q waves in II, III, AVF and V1
through V6. Chest x-ray demonstrated positive cardiomegaly
without effusion or CHF. He received cycle enzymes.

On hospital day 2, the patient while he was eating denied any
chest pain or shortness of breath. Blood pressure was 150/60
with a heart rate of 82. He was in no acute distress. His
hematocrit was 32. He received hemodialysis via the groin
catheter with gentle ultrafiltration. He was started on
Epogen. Nephrology followed throughout the hospital course,
making recommendations. Cardiology was consulted. A cardiac
cath was done on [**2-23**]. This demonstrated 2-vessel
disease. No intervention was done. He had heavily calcified
LFA. The LVEDP was mildly elevated. There were some beats
with early LV. Systolic pressure to negative 2 mmHg. His
blood pressure was a little labile between 120 and 180 mmHg.
Mild left ventricular diastolic dysfunction was noted.
Peripheral arterial disease was noted, as well as systemic
systolic arterial hypertension. There was trifurcation distal
to the LMCA into the LCX and ramus origin not favorable for
PCI. The distal LPL and ramus were not ideal targets for
CABG. Moderate LAD disease. Medical therapy was recommended,
and cardiac surgery evaluation was deferred.
Electrophysiology evaluation was recommended to be
considered, and reinforcement of secondary preventative
measures against CAD, PVD and diastolic dysfunction were
recommended. An EP consult was obtained. After review of
history and diagnostics, no further recommendations were
made. An EP study was deferred.

The vascular team followed the patient. The patient is known
to Dr.[**Name (NI) 1392**] service for recent right TMA and left toe
gangrene. Vital signs are stable. He was afebrile. A left
tunneled hemodialysis catheter was placed on [**2139-2-23**]
using a 14.5 French double-lumen 23-cm cuff-tip tunneled
dialysis catheter via the left subclavian access with the tip
at the cavoatrial junction. The patient did go to dialysis
and tolerated this well. On [**2-24**], 1.8 kg was
ultrafiltrated. Blood pressures ranged between 140/60 down to
108/82, with heart rate in the 78-81 range. He received
Epogen at hemodialysis. Patient on physical exam continued to
be alert but mildly confused. O2 2 liters nasal cannula was
utilized with sats ranging in the high-90s up to 97%. He has
remained n.p.o. intermittently for possible EP study. This
was deferred, and he was resumed on a renal diet.

The patient completed a course of Flagyl that had been
started previous to this admission. A CTA was done of the
chest to assess for PE, given concern for right atrial
enlargement. The CTA demonstrated no central pulmonary
embolism, coronary artery calcification, small bilateral
pleural effusions, and right lower lobe consolidation,
multiple rib fractures, displaced midsternal fracture, which
appeared to be new compared to the prior study. The EP
consult team reviewed findings with Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **], and no
further studies were recommended other than medical
management. Of note, the patient had a prior episode of PEA
secondary to hypoglycemia.

It was felt that the patient would be safe to return to
rehab. Physical therapy followed the patient during this
hospital course. It was noted that the patient had
impairments associated with chronic polyneuropathy and
amputation. He was functioning below his baseline. Rehab was
recommended to increase functional mobility given
deconditioning. During this hospital course, the patient's
vital signs post arrest, he was afebrile, blood pressure was
in the 140/60 range, heart rate in the 80s, O2 sat 94% on
room air. His glucoses were controlled. He does not make
urine. He was resumed on a renal diet. Of note, the patient
has a clamped G-tube.

His right TMA is open to air with black eschar along the TMA
site. The left second toe appears necrotic. There were bright
red areas noted at the toes and some black eschar on the left
first toe. Multi-Podus boots were applied.

During this hospital course, his hematocrit was relatively
stable in the range of 34.7 down to 31. White count remained
in the 6.1-6.9 range. Coags were normal. Sodium 142,
potassium 4.3, chloride 102, bicarbonate 29, BUN 15,
creatinine 4.4, and a glucose of 114 on [**2-25**]. CPKs were
negative. His alkaline phosphatase was noted to be a little
elevated at 183 on [**2139-2-20**]. Troponin was 0.15 on [**2139-2-21**]. Previous troponins were 0.15 and 0.1. Calcium was
stable at 9, phosphorus 3.8-5.8, magnesium 1.6-1.9, albumin
3.0.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Included aspirin 325 mg p.o. once
daily, lansoprazole 15 mg p.o. once daily, Nephrocaps 1 tab
p.o. once daily, PhosLo 1334 mg p.o. t.i.d., insulin regular
sliding scale q.i.d. p.r.n., captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., heparin sodium 5000 un