Admission Date:  [**2194-8-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2194-8-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2143-5-24**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 51-year-old male
admitted on [**2194-8-2**], who has severe Crohn's
disease status post multiple surgical revisions leaving the
patient with short-gut syndrome requiring chronic home TPN,
from which the patient has been subject to multiple line
infections, sepsis, and ARDS in the past, who was admitted to
the MICU from the Emergency Room with fever of 103?????? and
hypotension.

This patient was in his usual state of health until [**8-1**] when he was noted by his 24-hour nurse to be febrile with
a temperature of 103.1?????? and systolic blood pressures in the
upper 70s.  He was brought to [**Hospital6 33**] where he
was started on Dopamine for his low blood pressure and
received supplemental oxygen and was transferred to [**Hospital6 1760**] for further management.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was noted to have
two PICC lines, all of which were occluded.  A right
subclavian triple lumen was placed after which the left PICC
was removed.  With fluid resuscitation, the patient's blood
pressure was brought up to 170, and the Dopamine was
discontinued.

He was given IV Solu-Medrol for chronic steroid use, as well
as an amp of D50 for hypoglycemia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Crohn's disease status post
multiple surgical revisions including total colectomy, and
partial ileal resection for which he is on home TPN.  2.
Multiple PICC line infections.  3.  Chronic renal
insufficiency with a previously billed baseline creatinine of
2.0-2.5.  4.  Severe osteoporosis status post cervical
stabilization in [**2192**] after spontaneous vertebral body
collapse.  5.  Chronic coag-negative Staphylococcus
osteomyelitis of these cervical vertebrae near the area of
the surgical stabilization in [**2192-11-20**] for which the
patient is on chronic suppressive Vancomycin.  6.
Hypertension.  7.  Depression.  8.  Anemia for which he is on
Epogen for a baseline hematocrit between 23-30.  9.
Dementia, mild.  10.  Chronic nausea.  11.  Mitral
regurgitation, 4+ by TEE in [**2194-4-20**] with an ejection
fraction of 55%.  12.  ARDS in [**2193-2-18**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Niferex 15 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Prednisone 2 mg p.o. q.d., Imodium 4 mg q.6 hours, TUMS,
Vitamin C, Rocaltrol 0.25 mg q.d., Vitamin D, Wellbutrin SR
150 mg b.i.d., Zantac 50 mg IV q.d., Vancomycin 1 g IV
q.o.d., Sandostatin 20 mg IM q.month, Fentanyl patch 50 mcg
q.72 hours, Ambien 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n., Tylenol p.r.n.,
Benadryl 50 mg p.o. q.6 hours p.r.n., Vistaril 25 mg p.o. q.6
hours p.r.n., Xanax 0.5 mg p.o. q.6 hours p.r.n., Marinol 25
mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n., Ativan 1 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.,
Remeron 30 mg p.o. q.h.s., Trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s.
p.r.n., Clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n., Amtriptiline 50
mg p.o. q.h.s., Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d., Zofran 4 mg IV q.8
hours p.r.n., Epogen 4000 U subcutaneous q.week.

ALLERGIES:  METHOTREXATE, COMPAZINE.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Significant for a 60 pack-year tobacco
history which is ongoing.  No alcohol or other drugs.  There
is a history of past narcotic abuse and pain medications in
the past.  He lives alone with 24[**Hospital 8018**] nursing care.  His
family is intermittently involved in his care.  His brother
[**Name (NI) **] is the primary spokesman for the patient's numerous
siblings; however, his brothers [**Name (NI) **] and [**Name (NI) **] are also
healthcare proxies for him.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Upon arrival in the
Emergency Department, his temperature was 103??????, heart rate
110-120, blood pressure 120/60, respirations 30, oxygen
saturation 97% on 8 L face mask.  General:  The patient was a
middle-aged male in moderate distress.  HEENT:  Anicteric.
Dry mucous membranes.  He had jugular venous distention
approximately 5-6 cm.  No lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular:
He was tachycardiac with regular S1 and S2 sounds and without
any murmurs or gallops.  Chest:  Minimal expiratory wheezes
were heard scattered bilaterally.  Crackles were heard at the
bases.  Abdomen:  Soft and nontender.  There were multiple
old scars and a suture protruding from the periumbilical
area.  The ostomy was pink on the right midabdomen that was
prolapsed however was viable with good capillary refill, and
it was functioning.  Extremities:  Warm.  He had 2+ pulses.
He was able to move all four extremities on command.  He was
without any skin breakdown noted on back or extremities.
Neurological:  He was alert and oriented times two.  He had a
grossly nonfocal exam.  Skin: There were no rashes noted on
his body.

LABORATORY DATA:  Initial studies were significant for a
hematocrit of 37, white count 5.5, platelet count 119; bicarb
15, BUN 40, creatinine 2.3; he had a therapeutic Vancomycin
level on [**8-2**]; urinalysis was with dilute urine but
otherwise negative; blood cultures were drawn, as was a
random Cortisol level.

Electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm with isolated
significant Q-wave in lead III and flattened Ts in the same
lead.

Chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly, unchanged from prior
exams.  Cephalization of the vessels suggested congestive
heart failure but without effusions or focal infiltrates, and
a right-sided rib fracture.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN:  The patient was admitted to the MICU
Service for sepsis of unclear etiology, although the past
history of PICC line infection and sepsis was suggested, as
no other obvious source was identifiable.  He was given
stress dose steroids.  He was started on Linezolid and Zosyn
empirically, in addition to continuing his Vancomycin.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Despite aggressive fluid rehydration, the
patient continued to develop hypotension.  He was started on
pressors, and a Swan was placed to better guage hemodynamic
parameters, keep the patient euvolemic and monitor
mitral regurgitation.

The Swan-Ganz catheter revealed data consistent with a septic
physiology unresponsive to fluid bolus.  The patient had
bilateral patchy infiltrates, as well as increasing
respiratory distress, consistent with ARDS.  He was started
on Xigris and was attempted to be ventilated by an ARDS
strategy; however, he was persistently hypoxic with a
conventional strategy.  He was therefore switched to APRV
ventilation for several days which maintained his
oxygenation.

On hospital day #4, fecal-like material was noted to be on
the NG tube, and his ostium was disimpacted with large
amounts of viscus material from the stoma.  CT of the abdomen
was performed which did not show an obstruction.  At the same
time, his random cortisol level was found to be normal, and
his stress-dose steroids were discontinued.

His PICC line eventually grew Klebsiella which was sensitive
to Zosyn.  Linezolid was discontinued, and the patient became
afebrile.  His bicarbonate levels were persistently low, and
the patient was diagnosed with a renal tubular acidosis, and
bicarbonate was supplemented in his TPN.

By hospital day #8, the patient was weaned from the Levophed,
although he was still with fever.  A TEE was performed due to
concern of possible endocarditis, giving the patient's severe
murmur and his history of bacteremia.  Vegetation was seen on
the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve, but this was
unchanged in size as compared to prior exams.  Also unchanged
was the patient's 4+ mitral regurgitation.

By hospital day #11, the patient was having improved
pulmonary function, requiring less oxygenation but still
highly PEEP dependent.  He still had persistently low-grade
fevers.

Repeat CT of the abdomen and chest was performed looking for
bacterial seeding and abscess, but none was found.  Several
days after the Levophed was discontinued, afterload reduction
was started to encourage diuresis of the fluid that he had
retained during his resuscitation.  With afterload reduction,
the patient's creatinine improved to better than his
previously known baseline, where he was as low as 1.6 at
times.

All of the patient's lines were changed in an attempt to
ascertain the cause of the continued low-grade temperatures.
Despite being unable to find the source, his condition
conti