Admission Date:  [**2159-5-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2159-6-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2082-11-10**]       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 76-year-old
gentleman with a history of CAD, hypertension, high
cholesterol, chronic renal insufficiency, and idiopathic
restrictive cardiomyopathy, possibly secondary to amyloid,
who presents with increase in shortness of breath.  The
patient was recently hospitalized for worsening CHF during
which he had a thoracentesis and a fat pad biopsy.  He
reports since then increased shortness of breath, dyspnea on
exertion with 10-15 feet.  He also notes decreased urine
output overnight and he has no urine output on the morning of
admission.  The patient presented to the Emergency Room with
an O2 saturation of 73% on room air and a systolic blood
pressure in the 70's and no urine output after a Foley
catheter was placed.  He was given 500 cc of normal saline
bolus and started on Dopamine.  The patient initially
required a non rebreather but was eventually stable on nasal
cannula O2.  He had a right IJ catheter placed in the
Emergency Room and a Swan Ganz placed later in the day.  The
patient had a thoracentesis of a recurrent right pleural
effusion with ultrasound guidance also upon arrival in the
CCU.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Coronary artery disease status post
CABG in [**2142**].  2) Cardiomyopathy, infiltrative, currently
being worked up for amyloidosis.  3) Recurrent transudative
pleural effusions.  4) Hyperlipidemia.  5) Chronic renal
insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 1.5 to 2.0.  6)
Hypertension.  7) Status post hernia repair.  8) Penile
implant.

MEDICATIONS:  On admission, Toprol 50 mg q d, Aldactone 25 mg
q d, Lasix 120 mg q d, Zocor 20 mg q d, Aspirin 325 mg q d,
Colestipol 5 mg q d and Zestril 2.5 mg q d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone, family nearby,
DNR/DNI, no tobacco, no alcohol.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No fevers, weight is stable, positive non
productive cough.  The patient notes increased abdominal
girth, no nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or bright red blood per
rectum, good appetite, no dysuria or frequency.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, T current 97.8, pulse
79, blood pressure 91/40, respiratory rate 18, O2 saturation
94% on Dopamine.  General, patient is a pleasant, elderly
male in no acute distress, who is alert and oriented times
three.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to
light and accommodation, extraocular movements intact,
scleral icterus, oropharynx clear, dry mucus membranes.  Neck
supple with JVD of about 12.  Lungs, decreased breath sounds
at the bases with bibasilar rales.  Cardiovascular, regular
rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs, rubs or
gallops.  Abdomen soft, nontender, non distended, positive
bowel sounds.  Extremities, no pedal edema, 1+ DP pulses
bilaterally.  Neuro, patient is a alert and oriented times
three, cranial nerves intact, moving all extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count 11.1, hematocrit
35.2, platelet count 231,000, PT 14.7, INR 1.5, sodium 127,
potassium 5.3, chloride 89, CO2 27, BUN 47, creatinine 2.5,
glucose 126, urinalysis showed large blood and nitrites,
greater than 300 protein, small bilirubin, [**3-6**] whites,
greater than 50 RBC, ALT 20, AST 22, LDH 196, total bilirubin
2.4, total protein 2.2, albumin 3.9, CK 65, troponin 1.0,
calcium 9.1, magnesium 2.2, pleural fluid showed protein 3.0,
glucose 131, LDH 90, PH 7.49.  Chest x-ray showed right sided
pleural effusion and mild CHF.  EKG was V paced with rate of
66.  Abdominal biopsy was negative for amyloid.
Echocardiogram [**4-27**] showed left atrial moderately dilated,
symmetric LVH, right myocardium with speckled pattern, LVEF
30-35.  Cath on [**2158-8-10**], SVG to OM1 patent, LIMA to LAD
patent, RA19 wedge 34.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 76-year-old gentleman with
a history of CAD, hypertension, high cholesterol,
infiltrative cardiomyopathy being worked up for amyloid, who
came in with hypotension and hypoxia.

1.  Cardiovascular:  Patient with a restrictive
cardiomyopathy thought to be secondary to amyloid.  He came
in with hypotension, required Dopamine which was eventually
weaned off.  The patient had a Swan Ganz catheter placed
which initially showed an output of 6.5, an index of 3.23 and
SVR of 714.  These numbers decreased slightly when the
Dopamine was weaned off.  The patient underwent a biopsy of
his endomyocardium and results at this time are pending. The
H&E stain was suggestive for amyloid but the
                   for definitive amyloid diagnosis is
pending at this time.  The patient was not restarted on any
of his cardiac medications and was discharged home not on any
medications.  His pacer was checked by EP and the rate was
increased to 80.

2.  Pulmonary:  Patient is status post tap of recurrent
transudative effusions, likely secondary to congestive heart
failure.  The patient underwent pleuroscopy with pleurodesis
and pleural biopsy on the 29th.  He had a chest tube that was
removed prior to discharge.  He did well and will follow-up
with Dr. [**Name (NI) **].

3.  GI:  The patient had elevated alkaline phosphatase and
bilirubin on admission.  He had an abdominal ultrasound that
showed minimal ascites with distended hepatic veins
consistent with right heart failure.  He had some gallstones
without any evidence of cholecystitis.  His LFTs became more
normal prior to discharge.

4.  Renal:  The patient admitted with elevated creatinine,
decreased urine output and worsening renal failure.  He had
recently been started on ACE inhibitor.  This was
discontinued.  Urine output and creatinine improved while on
Dopamine.  His numbers continued to be stable and on day of
discharge had actually started to go up and on day of
discharge creatinine was 2.1.  He had potassium of 6.1 on day
of discharge for which he received Kayexalate and Lactulose
and those numbers will be repeated the day after discharge by
home VNA.

5.  Endocrine:  Patient with hyponatremia, pattern consistent
with heart failure, his urine lytes were not consistent with
SIADH.  An endocrine consult was obtained and they agreed
that heart failure was the likely etiology.  There is also
concern over adrenal insufficiency and an a.m. Cortisol was
checked and was 25.  This ruled out adrenal insufficiency.
Of note, his thyroid functions were also checked and his TSH
was 12 and his free T4 was 1.4.  But given the fact that he
had received some Dopamine which could suppress his TSH,
these may not be accurate numbers.  Endocrine also noted that
the free T4 is not very helpful in an acute hospitalized
setting.  He has repeat TFTs and T3 and T3 uptake pending at
time of discharge.  This needs to be followed up by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].

6.  GU:  The patient had some dysuria and bladder spasm with
his Foley catheter.  He received Levsin prn for those spasms.
Also of note, patient has penile implants and had a condom
catheter that caused increased swelling of his penis.  He was
seen by GU who helped deflate his implants and his symptoms
improved.

DISPOSITION:  The patient will be discharged home, with home
VNA services.  He does not want to pursue further care and is
DNR/DNI at this time.  They will arrange home hospice as they
are interested.  The patient is discharged home on no
medications.  He will have labs checked on day after
discharge.  He will follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in one week and
Dr. [**Name (NI) **] in one week.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Coronary artery disease.
2.  Restrictive cardiomyopathy.
3.  Congestive heart failure.
4.  Renal failure.
5.  High cholesterol.
6.  Recurrent pleural effusions.
7.  Status post pleurodesis.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  None.




                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 2064**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.12-abz

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2069**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2159-6-1**]  10:57
T:  [**2159-6-1**]  11:09
JOB#:  [**Job Number 43154**]
