Admission Date:  [**2158-11-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2158-11-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2095-4-11**]     Sex:  F

Service:  IM-[**Last Name (un) **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   This is a 63 year old woman
with multiple medical problems including pancreas divisum,
diabetes mellitus type 2, transaminitis, hypertension,
gastroesophageal reflux disease, nausea, vomiting,
constipation, hemorrhoids, Crohn's Disease in remission,
metastatic pancreatic cancer to liver.  She was in her usual
state of health until seven days prior to admission, when she
noticed a swelling of her left foot.  Three days later, there
was swelling noted on the right foot as well as right leg and
thigh.

Over the following day, her swelling increased and coolness
and discoloration were noted in the lower extremities causing
pain on ambulation especially with dorsiflexion.  There was
no associated shortness of breath, chest pain, dizziness,
headache, change in vision or change in mental status.

The patient called her primary care physician who scheduled [**Name Initial (PRE) **]
lower extremity venous duplex at [**Hospital1 190**] which showed bilateral deep venous thromboses.
The patient was given 80 mg of Lovenox subcutaneously there
and was directly admitted for treatment of lower extremity
deep venous thrombosis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   As per History of Present Illness.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post stent placement, biliary stent, in [**2158-9-30**].
2.  Total abdominal hysterectomy / bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient has complained of recent dry
mouth, loss of taste and weakness.  Denies any recent weight
loss, chest pain, dizziness, fever, chills or night sweats.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.9 F.; blood pressure
85/47; pulse 110; respiratory rate 20; O2 saturation on room
air 97%.  In general, chronically ill appearing in no acute
distress.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Extraocular
muscles are intact.  Pupils equally round and reactive to
light and accommodation.  Mucous membranes were moist; no
adenopathy, no jugular venous distention.  Chest clear to
auscultation bilaterally, no wheezes or rhonchi, breath
sounds normal.  Cardiovascular examination:  S1, S2, no
murmurs, gallops or rubs.  Regular rate and rhythm;
tachycardic at 110 beats per minute.  Abdomen soft,
distended, positive hepatomegaly three fingerbreadths below
the costal margin.  Ill defined immobile mass in the left
lower quadrant, nontender, nondistended, no rebound, guarding
or rigidity, bowel sounds normal.  Extremities with bilateral
pitting edema to knees, plus four, right lower extremity
greater than left.  Right extremity cooler than left,
positive [**Last Name (un) 5813**] sign on the right.  Bilateral discoloration,
right greater than left.  Distal pulses present and strong.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 17.6, hemoglobin 10.7,
hematocrit 33.7, platelets 99.  Sodium 129, potassium 4.7,
chloride 93, bicarbonate 24, BUN 39, creatinine 1.6 with
baseline 0.4 to 0.7; glucose 403 (corrected sodium 133).

Coags with PT 30, PTT 150, INR 6.  Repeat coags with PT 24,
PTT 47.6, INR 3.8.

Venous duplex:  Extensive deep venous thrombosis from common
femoral vein to popliteal veins bilaterally.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Assessment:  [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Known lastname **] is a 63 year old woman with
multiple medical problems, of note, metastatic pancreatic
cancer to the liver, who presents with increased lower
extremity swelling for one week, subsequently found to
represent bilateral deep venous thromboses.

On arrival to the Floor, the patient was noted to be
hypotensive, tachycardic and did not respond appropriately to
three liters of normal saline fluid boluses.  Given the high
index of suspicion for pulmonary embolism in the setting of
metastatic cancer, it was decided to order a CT angiogram to
evaluate the possibility of pulmonary emboli.  Subsequent CT
showed significant filling defects in the pulmonary
circulation representing massive bilateral pulmonary emboli.

The patient was taken to the Intensive Care Unit where the
patient arrived to the Medical Intensive Care Unit alert and
oriented in no apparent distress.  She was in sinus
tachycardia with heart rate in the low 100s with no ectopy
seen at the time.  Her blood pressure continued to be in the
low 80s and respiratory rate between 12 and 16 breaths per
minute.  There were no complaints of shortness of breath or
chest pain.  She remained afebrile.

It was subsequently decided that based on the patient's
massive pulmonary embolism, the most appropriate intervention
at that time was for an IVC filter placement.  In the
interim, however, the patient was started on a heparin drip
which was discontinued temporarily before the IVC filter
placement to then resume subsequently.  Following placement
of the filter, the patient remained on bed rest with pulse
and groin checks every one hour.  Her pulses remained
Dopplerable and palpable.  Her groin site was intact with no
signs of hematoma or bleeding.

Her heparin was subsequently restarted at 1150 units per
hour.  She continued having bilateral lower extremity edema
however.  Her O2 saturation remained in the high 90s on two
liters of nasal cannula; lungs remained clear.  By that time,
the patient was stable to be transferred back to floor.

Upon arrival to the regular medicine floor, the patient
continued to be tachycardic and hypotensive.  Intravenous
fluids were continued as needed to maintain blood pressure.
The patient was preload dependent and needed boluses to
maintain her blood pressure.  A trial off of intravenous
fluids was attempted which the patient tolerated.  She
remained normotensive.

During the rest of her hospital stay, she continued in sinus
tachycardia with no arrhythmias noted on Telemetry.
Respiratory she remained comfortable saturating in the 90s on
room air with no desaturation.

She was started on Lovenox 80 mg subcutaneously q. 12 to
treat her thromboembolism.  She will need to remain on
Lovenox indefinitely.

The rest of her hospital stay was complicated by oliguria
followed by anuria.  The patient was provided with
intravenous fluids in the form of normal saline through
boluses and normal infusion, however, urine output did not
respond appropriately.

Urinalysis was sent which results were consistent with a
urinary tract infection.  Of note, her urinalysis showed
nitrites, leukocyte esterase, 6 to 10 red blood cells, 21 to
50 white blood cells, many bacteria, 11 to 20 transitional
epithelial cells.  She was subsequently started on Levaquin
for therapy at 500 mg q. day by mouth, however, urine output
remained minimal.  A fractional excretion of sodium
determined the patient to be prerenal indicating a need for
further hydration.

Despite encouraging p.o. intake, the patient persisted with
poor appetite.  At this time, it was decided to transfuse the
patient with two units of packed red blood cells to try to
maintain her fluid intravascular.  It was apparent that she
was third spacing and the fluids that she was receiving were
going into the extravascular space.  The patient received two
units of packed red blood cells without incident.  She
remained afebrile afterwards, however, she remained anuric.
A Lasix trial was initiated at which time the patient
appeared to respond somewhat.

At this point, the patient appears somewhat stabilized
hemodynamically.  As far as her other medical problems, they
remained relatively stable.  The patient's hypertension was
an indication of her hemodynamic instability in light of the
thromboembolism.  While initially she had low blood pressure
throughout the course of her hospital stay, she became
normotensive.  She remained off of her blood pressure
medications and off of intravenous fluids towards the tail
end of her hospital stay.

For her thromboembolic disease, the patient was thought to
have an element of mild DIC, in light of the low platelets
and high INR and presence of thromboembolic disease in the
lower extremities and in the pulmonary vasculature.  While
the patient is on a chemotherapy regimen with Taxotere, the
possibility 