Admission Date:  [**2145-2-5**]     Discharge Date:  [**2145-2-25**]


Service:  MICU

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1.  Hypoxic respiratory failure.
2.  Pneumonia.
3.  Adult respiratory distress syndrome.
4.  Hypotension.
5.  Atrial fibrillation.
6.  Anemia.
7.  Tension pneumothorax.
8.  Adrenal insufficiency.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 84-year-old male with
a past medical history significant for paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation and prostate cancer who was transferred from the
[**Hospital3 3583**] for further treatment of hypoxic respiratory
failure.  The patient was admitted to the an outside hospital
on [**2145-1-29**] with complaints of increased dyspnea
times one to two weeks with diaphoresis and chest pain with
cough and no fevers or chills.  The patient's dyspnea
progressed to shortness of breath while at rest.  The
patient's family noted that two other family members were
also suffering from shortness of breath and cough, both were
hospitalized with pneumonia.

On admission, the patient was originally started on
Ceftriaxone.  Chest x-ray revealed small right lower lobe and
left lower lobe infiltrates.  The patient was afebrile with a
white blood cell count of 12.8, a blood pressure of 86/40
with a heart rate of 130, 97% 02 saturation on four liters.
The patient's oxygen requirement continued to worsen with
increase opacifications on chest x-ray.  Levofloxacin was
substituted and steroids were added on [**2-3**].  The
patient was intubated on [**2-5**] for hypoxic respiratory
failure.  A CT scan was obtained revealing diffuse ground
glass opacities with extensive  emphysematous changes without
lymphadenopathy or tumor seen.  The patient was transferred
after intubation on assist control ventilation 750/14 with
pressure support of 7, PEEP of 5 and 100% FIO2.  In addition,
the patient was reported to have had an episode of atrial
fibrillation with rapid ventricular response requiring
diltiazem drip but the patient spontaneously cardioverted to
sinus rhythm and arrived to the [**Hospital6 2018**] without a diltiazem drip.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Prostate cancer, status post XRT in [**2133**].
2.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

DRUGS ON TRANSFER:  Levofloxacin 500 mg q.d., Solu-Medrol 60
mg intravenous q. 8 hours, digoxin 0.125 mg q.d., Zantac,
aspirin 325 mg po q.d., metoprolol 75 mg po b.i.d., heparin
5000 units subcutaneous b.i.d.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  None.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Wife with advanced Alzheimer's.  Married
with four grown children.  A distant history of tobacco use
over 50-60 years prior.  No alcohol use.  No travel history
and patient is active and works.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION TO THE [**Hospital6 **]:  Temperature 101 rectally.
Pulse 70.  Blood pressure 120/60.  Oxygen saturation 88% on
assist control ventilation 750/14, pressure support of 7,
PEEP of 5 on 100% FIO2, PIP of 24 and a plateau 23.  Weight
72 kg.  General examination:  Sedated, intubated thin elderly
male.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat exam:  Pupils 1 mm
bilaterally reactive.  Sclera were anicteric.  OG tube was in
place with no jugular venous distention.  Lungs:  Expiratory
wheezes over the left posterior hemithorax, crackles over the
right posterior hemithorax, half way up.  Heart:  Regular
rate and rhythm without murmurs or rubs, no S3 or S4.
Abdomen had decreased bowel sounds, soft, nondistended.
Rectal was OB negative on [**2-4**].  Extremities:  No
edema.  Extremities were well-perfused with good capillary
refill.  Distal pulses 1+ bilaterally.  Neurologically:
Sedated with a positive gag.

NOTABLE LABORATORIES:  [**2145-1-29**]:  White blood cell
count 12.8, hematocrit 53.  [**2-3**]:  White blood cell
count 13.5 with hematocrit of 49.  [**2-5**] at the outside
hospital white blood cell count 23.8, hematocrit 48.  On
presentation to [**Hospital6 256**], white
blood cell count 15.8, hematocrit 44.6, platelets 466.
Sodium 143, potassium 4.7, chloride 110, bicarbonate 23, BUN
35, creatinine 0.8, glucose 126, calcium 7.8, magnesium 1.9,
phosphorus 5.0.  Arterial blood gases on AC 7.34/45/213 on
100% oxygen assist controlled ventilation 600 x 20 and a PEEP
of 10.  Microbiologic data:  Influenza A and B were negative.
A Gram stain sputum from [**2-2**]:  Moderate epithelial
cells, moderate gram positive rods, moderate gram positive
cocci, moderate pleomorphic gram negative rods.  Culture
sputum normal flora.  Blood culture from [**2145-1-29**]:
No growth to date times two sets.  Transthoracic
echocardiogram at the outside hospital:  Normal ejection
fraction 55% with normal valves.  CT scan of the chest on
[**2-5**]:  Bilateral pleural effusions with atelectasis,
emphysematous changes bilaterally diffusely with occasional
large bulla, diffuse ground glass appearance.  Chest x-ray on
[**2-5**]:  Diffuse opacities bilaterally without
pneumothorax and normal heart size.

COURSE IN THE HOSPITAL:  The patient was admitted to the [**Hospital6 1760**] Intensive Care Unit on a
ventilator for treatment of pneumonia and presumed adult
respiratory distress syndrome.

1.  Respiratory for hypoxic respiratory failure.  The patient
was continued on mechanical ventilation with low tidal
volumes and pressures with PEEP for presumed adult
respiratory distress syndrome.  He was treated with albuterol
and Atrovent MDIs as necessary.  A bronchoscopy was performed
which revealed nonspecific changes.  The patient's ventilator
settings were adjusted as necessary to maintain stable oxygen
saturations and minimize pressures.  Despite multiple
attempts to decrease the patient's sedation and attempt to
wean the patient from the ventilator, the patient was unable
to be weaned from the ventilator as of [**2145-2-25**].

2.  Infectious Disease:  For the patient's pneumonia, he was
begun on Ceftriaxone and vancomycin initially.  This was then
changed to Levaquin.  Multiple cultures were sent including a
bronchoscopy sample which was negative for pneumocystis and
legionella and positive for [**Female First Name (un) **] albicans.  Multiple blood
cultures and sputum cultures were negative.  The patient was
continued on Levaquin as described above.  On [**2145-2-14**],
the patient was hypotensive and hypothermic and was felt to
be septic and a question of vent acquired pneumonia was
raised.  The patient was then resumed on vancomycin and
Ceftriaxone for presumed vent acquired pneumonia.  The
patient continued to have temperatures and despite multiple
cultures and changing of access lines, the patient's cultures
remained negative.  Antibiotics were continued.

3.  Cardiovascular:  Hypotension:  The patient's hemodynamics
were aggressively monitored.  He was given intravenous fluids
as necessary for hypotension.  Eventually the patient
required blood pressure support with pressors.  These were
required intermittently.  During the week of [**2145-2-21**],
the patient's pressor requirement remained high requiring
large doses of Neo-Synephrine which were unable to be weaned
previously in the patient's course, his pressor requirement
was intermittent but during the days between [**2-21**] and
[**2-25**], the patient's pressor requirements remained steady
and high and he was unable to be weaned to lower doses.

4.  Atrial fibrillation:  The patient developed periods of
atrial fibrillation throughout the course of the
hospitalization.  Initially these were responsive to
diltiazem or spontaneously converted on their own.  One
episode was associated with hypotension and the patient was
attempted for DC cardioversion.  He did not respond to this
and an amiodarone drip was started along with blood pressure
support from pressors.  The patient spontaneously converted
on this.  He was then maintained on amiodarone po.  He
suffered from one additional atrial fibrillation episode.  An
amiodarone drip was started again and the patient was
returned to amiodarone po.  He was also seen in consultation
by the Cardiology Service who recommended amiodarone
intravenous and po, as was executed.

5.  Endocrine:  Given the patient's pressor requirements, it
was presumed that the patient was potentially adrenally
insufficient and would benefit from steroi