Admission Date:  [**2149-12-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2149-12-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2121-3-13**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:  Acute respiratory distress syndrome.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 28 year old
male with no apparent medical history who presented from the
outside hospital with respiratory collapse and adult
respiratory distress syndrome, sepsis of unknown etiology.

The patient was feeling ill over the weekend with cough and
upper respiratory infection symptoms, febrile to 102.  The
patient last took NyQuil and Ibuprofen.  The patient's
girlfriend was [**Name2 (NI) **] with the same symptoms.  The patient last
went to a local Emergency Department with a cough,
hemoptysis, diarrhea, fatigue and chest x-ray showing right
hilar fullness.  The patient was diagnosed with bronchitis at
that time and was given a metered dose inhaler and
discontinued to home.

Laboratory data at that time revealed white blood count 9.8,
hematocrit 42.7, platelets 201 and white blood count had 25%
bands, 57% polys.  His creatinine at that time was 1.6.

The patient presented again and felt very poorly today, felt
very weak and continued to cough with hemoptysis, states he
was staggering around his apartment.  The patient also
complained of severe chest pain, states relieved when the
patient positioned himself prone on the floor.  He returned
to the outside hospital on the evening of [**12-23**] with
chest x-ray now revealing diffuse left-sided air space
infiltrate as well as right upper lobe infiltrate.
Laboratory data were notable for white blood count of 1.0
with an ANC of 210, 16% bands, 5 polys, platelets of 92 and
creatinine of 2.0.  Creatinine kinase at that time was 2,852
with a troponin I of 0.07.  The patient was intubated for
respiratory distress and was transferred to [**Hospital6 1760**] via [**Location (un) **].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS:  None regularly, took Ibuprofen yesterday.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient smoked tobacco and used marijuana,
occasional alcohol, denies any intravenous drug abuse.
Denies any cocaine.  The patient spent four years in jail and
had negative human immunodeficiency virus test times four,
yearly tests done in prison.  The patient also had a PPD
placed and worked as a mechanic.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory, no sudden deaths.  Further
history from girlfriend and mother revealed the patient had a
right thigh abscess incised and drained approximately two
weeks ago.

LABORATORY DATA:  Significant laboratory data on admission,
again white blood count was 0.9, platelets 81, ANC 240,
coagulation studies at that time revealed INR 2.2, creatinine
kinase 2,467 with MB of 8 and troponin T of less than 0.01.
His initial arterial blood gases was 7.13, 64, 48, on 10 of
positive end-expiratory pressure and FIO2 of 100%.

Chest x-ray showed severe pulmonary edema, left greater than
right and fine test abdominal computerized tomography scan
showed diffuse pulmonary infiltrate, bowel edema, ascites
with aggressive volume resuscitation.  Electrocardiogram
showed sinus tachycardia at 136, some ST depressions in leads
2, 3 and AVF, and T wave inversions in V4 to V6 and leads 3.

In the Emergency Department the patient became hypotensive
and was started on Levophed and Dopamine and eventually
weaned off of Dopamine.  The patient also became increasingly
hypoxic with increasing positive end-expiratory pressure and
then eventually required 25 of positive end-expiratory
pressure and pressure control of 20.  The patient began
showing bright red blood from the endotracheal tube which was
bronchoscoped showing diffuse hyperemia and hemorrhage
without localizing lesions.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient's examination revealed
temperature 100.6, heart rate 108, blood pressure 65/40,
respiratory rate 40, 80% on pressure control with 25 of
positive end-expiratory pressure.

A right subclavian had been placed.  Lungs:  Coarse sounds
bilaterally diffusely, decreased breath sounds diffusely.
Cardiovascular:  Tachycardiac, normal S1 and S2, no murmurs.
Abdomen was soft, hypoactive bowel sounds, nondistended.
Extremities:  No edema, however, decreased dorsalis pedis
pulses with feet being cool, hands being cool to touch.
Neurological, the patient was intubated and sedated, however,
pupils were equal, round and reactive to light.  Skin with
multiple papular pustular lesions on lower extremities and
chest.  No draining appreciated.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Pulmonary - The patient presented with
adult respiratory distress syndrome and symptoms of diffuse
alveolar hemorrhage as shown on bronchoscopy.  Throughout the
hospitalization multiple maneuvers were tried including
pronation, ventilator mode changes, alveolar recruitment,
frequent deep suctioning to improve his respiratory distress,
resulting in temporary improvement of his oxygenation.
Although his respiratory status remained tenuous throughout
this hospitalization, his ultimate cause of death was
secondary to failure of his other organs.

However, the patient was started on high dose steroids for
approximately one day for concern of diffuse alveolar
hemorrhage.  The patient was volume resuscitated with blood,
with his diffuse alveolar hemorrhage.  Again multiple
ventilator changes were made throughout this hospitalization
course with a ventral hypoxia being unable to be controlled.

2.  Heme and dermatology - The patient's skin lesions were
seen by Dermatology on hospital day #2.  These skin lesions
were described as multiple erythematous plaques with dusky
perforate centers found on the face, trunk and extremities.
These perforate centers and plaques coalesced and biopsy was
consistent with DIC.  Stains on these biopsies were negative
for any microorganisms.  To control his bleeding, for the DIC
control, he eventually required a total of 12 units of
platelets, 15 units of fresh frozen plasma, 2 units of
cryoprecipitate and 1 unit of packed red blood cells.

3.  Cardiovascular - On hospital day #3 at 12 lead
electrocardiogram revealed [**Street Address(2) 5366**] elevations in the
inferolateral leads.  Cardiac markers peaked at CK of 95,560,
CKMB 435, troponin I of 3.39.  Emergent cardiac
catheterization at that time showed no cardiac disease,
however, his hemodynamics revealed elevation of the right and
left heart pressures with equalization of the right and left
ventricular diastolic pressure.  An emergent echocardiogram
was performed in which no pericardial effusion or wall motion
abnormalities were present.  His ejection fraction at that
time was normal.  No further cardiac interventions were
performed and ST elevations eventually resolved.  A head
computerized tomography was negative for any bleed,
explaining the ST elevations.  The patient remained on
multiple vasopressors including Dopamine, Levophed,
Neo-Synephrine and Vasopressin often at maximal doses
throughout this hospitalization to keep his mean arterial
pressures above 65.

4.  Renal - The patient's acute renal failure worsened to a
point where his creatinine was 5.8 with minimal urine output,
hypocalcemia and hyperkalemia.  A furosemide drip was
maximized but a positive fluid balance of positive 24 liters
over 4 days with worsening pulmonary edema and severe
electrolyte abnormalities prompted renal consultation to
initiation CVVH.  However, repeated line clots and
hypotension resulted in failure of CVVH to improve his
electrolytes or pulmonary status.

5.  Infectious disease - Infectious disease consultation was
obtained on day #1 and antibiotics were tailored to
Vancomycin, Levofloxacin and Ceftriaxone for broad gram
positive and negative coverage.  The next day his bronchial
washings from his bronchoscopy revealed 4+ gram positive
cocci in pairs and clusters and outside hospital blood
cultures grew one out of four positive bottles of
Staphylococcus aureus.  These bronchial washings eventually
grew Staphylococcus aureus.  Clindamycin IVIG were started on
day #2 for concern for Staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome.
His bronchial washing cultures were resistant to
Erythromycin, Oxacillin and Penicillin and were sensitive