Admission Date:  [**2144-12-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2144-12-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2104-11-5**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 45-year-old
Portuguese-speaking male, who reportedly developed acute
onset of respiratory distress and wheezing while working at a
restaurant.  By report, he had positive diaphoresis, anxiety,
and accessory muscle use.  He was brought to the Emergency
Department, where he was found to be tachycardic and
hypertensive and hypoxemic.  While in the Emergency
Department, he received albuterol and Combivent nebulizers
with slight improvement in his O2 saturation.

In the Emergency Department, he was found to be quite anxious
and using accessory muscles and was placed on nonrebreather.
Was given IV Solu-Medrol and Morphine as well as nitro paste.
He subsequently became less responsive and increasingly
hypoxic, and was intubated for respiratory failure.  Prior to
intubation, he was given succinylcholine and etomidate, and
received propofol boluses.  He was then transferred to the
MICU for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Asthma.
2. Possible history of hypertension, but other past medical
history was unknown.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Possible beta agonist use, but previous
medications were unclear at the time of admission.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient has a smoking history and works at a
local restaurant and nightclub.  He lives with his brother.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

VITAL SIGNS ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 99.8, blood pressure
139/86, pulse 120, respirations 16, and saturating 91%
intubated.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  General appearance:  Patient was intubated,
sedated.  Head and neck examination:  Pinpoint pupils,
reactive to light.  Muddy conjunctivae bilaterally.  Neck
exam:  Soft, supple, no lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular
exam:  Tachycardic, regular, normal S1, S2.  Pulmonary exam:
Diffuse inspiratory and expiratory wheezes in all lung fields
bilaterally.  Abdomen is soft, mildly distended, normal bowel
sounds.  Extremities had no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema,
with 2+ distal pulses bilaterally.  Skin exam had no rashes
or lesions.

LABORATORIES:  Initial laboratories were notable for a white
count of 16.1, hematocrit 50.7, platelets of 335, normal
coags.  Initial Chem-7 is unremarkable with a BUN and
creatinine of 14 and 1.0.  Negative cardiac enzymes.

Chest x-ray showed no evidence of infiltrate, edema, or
pneumothorax with large lung volumes.  ET tube in good
position.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Pulmonary:  Patient was initially thought to be in status
asthmaticus with acute respiratory distress and respiratory
failure.  He was intubated in the Emergency Department,
sedated, placed on propofol.  On [**12-12**], he was
admitted to the MICU service.  He was placed on mechanical
ventilation with Heliox, and was found to have increased
plateau pressures.  He was paralyzed with vecuronium.  Was
given IV steroids nebulizers and initially given levofloxacin
for suspected pneumonia.

Throughout his hospital course, he continued to improve and
he was slowly weaned off steroids and taken off Heliox.  On
[**12-18**], he was extubated and maintained good O2
saturations and improved respirations back to his baseline.
He was unable to relay his previous asthma medications and
was placed on Flovent and salmeterol inhalers, and given
albuterol prn.  He was also placed on a steroid taper, and
was strongly encouraged to stop smoking.

2. Cardiovascular:  He had an initial episode of hypotension
when in the Emergency Department thought to be secondary to
propofol and midazolam.  His blood pressure quickly improved
and was then found to be hypertensive, and was placed on
captopril.  At the time of discharge, his blood pressure was
stable without any antihypertensive medications.

3. Access:  He was given two peripheral IVs and an A-line
while in the unit, which were removed at the time of
discharge.  No central line was placed.

4. Neurological:  After his extubation, he was found to be
profoundly weak and there was a concern of a myopathy and/or
neuropathy.  Neurology was consulted.  During this
evaluation, his weakness steadily improved, so no EMG or
other studies were performed.  He had suspected ICU myopathy
and was full ambulatory at baseline at the time of discharge.

5. Disposition:  We were unable to contact patient's primary
care provider as he was unable to give adequate medical
history and the proper contacts.  [**Name (NI) **] felt at his
baseline at the time of discharge.  He was discharged home
with his new medication regimen.  He was given a follow-up
appointment to followup with his new primary care provider,
[**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) **] on [**2144-12-31**].  He was urged to continue
taking all medications as prescribed to prevent future
episodes of respiratory distress episodes.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Status asthmaticus.
2. Intensive Care Unit myopathy.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Prednisone taper to take 30 mg followed by 20 mg followed
by 10 mg over the next 11 days.
2. Albuterol inhaler take q.3-4h. as needed for shortness of
breath or wheezing.
3. Flovent 220 mcg take twice a day to prevent asthma flares.
4. Salmeterol 21 mcg two puffs twice a day to prevent asthma
flares.

FOLLOW-UP PLANS:  Patient was given appointment to followup
with his new primary care provider, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) **] on [**2144-12-31**].  He was told to take all medications as prescribed, and
continue his prednisone taper.  He was told that if he
developed any severe shortness of breath unrelieved with
inhalers, lightheadedness, severe weakness, fevers, or any
other concerning symptoms, that he should immediately contact
his primary care provider and come to the Emergency
Department.  He was also urged that he should stop smoking.



                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5613**], M.D.  [**MD Number(2) 5614**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6289**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2145-2-16**]  12:00
T:  [**2145-2-17**]  07:43
JOB#:  [**Job Number 53203**]
