Admission Date:  [**2124-1-22**]       Discharge Date: [**2124-2-29**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 80-year-old
male with coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular
disease, diastolic congestive heart failure, and diabetes
mellitus who was admitted from a nursing home with change in
mental status times seven days.

A head computed tomography was negative.  The working
diagnosis was congestive heart failure.  The patient was
initially admitted to the floor; however, the floor team
asked the Medical Intensive Care Unit to evaluate for hypoxia
and/or respiratory distress.  On evaluation, the patient was
agonally breathing and unresponsive.  Arterial blood gas
revealed a pH of 7.28, PCO2 was 87, PO2 was 70% on 100%
nonrebreather.  The code team was called for emergency
intubation.  A left subclavian line was placed.  Dopamine was
started for hypotension in the 60s/palpation.  Dark mucous
plugs were suctioned after endotracheal tube placement.  A
chest x-ray revealed new left lung whiteout.  An emergent
bronchoscopy was performed and successfully suctioned copious
amounts of mucous plugs from the left airway.  A repeat chest
x-ray showed significant re-expansion.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease; status post left anterior
descending artery stent in [**2119**].  Catheterization in [**2123-8-5**] revealing 2-vessel disease.
 2.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post aortobifemoral
bypass, status post femoral-femoral bypass.
 3.  Ischemic colitis in [**2123-11-5**].
 4.  Hypertension.
 5.  Left renal artery stenosis of 100%.
 6.  Hyperlipidemia.
 7.  Congestive heart failure; diastolic function with an
ejection fraction 50% to 55%.
 8.  Nephrolithiasis.
 9.  Diabetes mellitus.
10.  Atrial fibrillation.
11.  Adjustment disorder.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.h.s.
 2.  Coumadin 2 mg p.o. every Tuesday and Friday.
 3.  Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 5.  Loperamide as needed.
 6.  Regular insulin sliding-scale.
 7.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
 8.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
 9.  Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.
10.  Levaquin 500 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed temperature was 99.5, blood pressure
was 101/70, heart rate was 100, oxygen saturation was 100%.
In general, intubated and sedated elderly male, frail and
cachectic.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light,
edematous.  Cardiovascular examination revealed was
irregularly irregular second heart sound and second heart
sound.  No murmurs.  Pulmonary examination was clear to
auscultation anteriorly.  No wheezes.  The abdomen was soft
and nondistended.  Extremity examination revealed 2+ pitting
edema bilaterally.  Neurologic examination revealed intubated
and sedated.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
on admission revealed white blood cell count was 19.3 (with
85 neutrophils, 11 bands, and 3 lymphocytes), hematocrit was
29.4, and platelets were 263.  INR was 4.2 and partial
thromboplastin time was 32.5.  Chemistry-7 revealed sodium
was 140, potassium was 4.9, chloride was 100, bicarbonate was
33, blood urea nitrogen was 57, creatinine was 1.5, and blood
glucose was 160.  ALT was 15, AST was 29, alkaline
phosphatase was 155, and total bilirubin was 0.4.  Creatine
kinase was 58.  Troponin was 1.1.  Urinalysis revealed
positive nitrites, greater than 50 red blood cells, 11 to 20
white blood cells, many bacteria.  Calcium was 7.3, magnesium
was 2.1, and phosphate was 7.3.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed atrial
fibrillation at 91, normal axis, and normal intervals.  Q
wave in V3 and V6.  1-mm ST elevations in V1 and V2.  ST
depressions in V5 and V6.  T wave inversions in II, III, and
aVF.

A chest x-ray #1 initially revealed pulmonary edema with
bilateral effusions.  Chest x-ray #2 revealed left lung
whiteout/collapse, left mediastinal shift.  Chest x-ray #3
revealed left lung re-expansion, endotracheal tube and
subclavian lines in satisfactory position.

A head computed tomography revealed no acute bleeding.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  PULMONARY SYSTEM:  The patient was seen with copious
secretions and episodes of mucous plugs which were
effectively suctioned.  Also with bilateral pleural
effusions.  A diagnostic tap was performed of transudative
effusion.  Flexible bronchoscopies were performed and
secretions were suctioned.

The patient was initially extubated on [**2124-1-26**].  The
patient was reintubated on [**2-1**] for ventilatory failure
with respiratory distress, acidosis, hypercapnia.

On [**1-29**], a thoracentesis was performed and 1400 cc were
removed with 132 glucose, 1.1 protein, LDH 97, albumin 0.4.
Transudative and negative for malignant cells or organisms.
Due to pulmonary effusions with secretions, the patient was
unable to be re-extubated.  A tracheostomy tube was placed on
[**2124-2-3**], and the patient tolerated pressure support
which was weaned as tolerated according to oxygen
saturations.  On [**2-13**], .................... was placed.
At the time of discharge, the patient required pressure
support of 10 with a positive end-expiratory pressure of 5
during the day, and at night pressure support of 15 with a
positive end-expiratory pressure of 5.   He was discharged to
pulmonary rehabilitation to continue to be weaned.

2.  GASTROINTESTINAL ISSUES:  The patient has a history of
ischemic colitis.  Beginning on the first week of admission,
he began to bleed bright red/melanotic stool and was
transfused as needed for maintaining a hematocrit above 30.

Gastroenterology was consulted, and an upper endoscopy was
negative for a source of bleeding.  A red blood cell bleeding
scan was done which was negative.  Vascular Surgery was
consulted as was General Surgery.  Ultimately, his bleeding
slowed down on [**2-1**].

Then on [**2-3**], he had a colonoscopy performed for
diagnostic purposes which revealed ischemic colitis up to the
level of the splenic flexure; however, the colonoscope could
not be further advanced.  He continued without bleeding, and
a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube was placed on
[**2-4**], and tube feeds were initiated on [**2-5**], and
he began with more bright red blood per rectum.  He received
a total 23 units of packed red blood cells to maintain a
hematocrit of greater than 30.

Surgery was consulted again initially wanted to take him to
the operating room for a subtotal colectomy.  However,
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia antibodies were sent and
returned positive.  Hematology was consulted.  At this time,
platelets were 87, and Hematology recommended delaying the
surgery until his platelets began to rise.  All heparin
products were discontinued at this time.

On [**2-11**], his bleeding ceased, and his platelets rose.
Surgery (Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] opted that given that he was no longer
bleeding, they would not take him to the operating room.  He
was started again on tube feeds and tolerated then well
without any gross bleeding.  His hematocrit remained stable.
He continued with guaiac-positive stools, but no active
copious bleeding.  He was also continued on lansoprazole per
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube b.i.d.  The plan was
to continue supportive management unless he begins to bleed
copiously again; at which time, Surgery should be consulted
again to consider performing a subtotal colectomy.

3.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient initially had a
urinary tract infection with enterococcus and Citrobacter
which was treated with Zosyn for 7/7 days.  Then, for
ischemic colitis he was continued on Zosyn; however, this was
discontinued after a 2-week course.

He was admitted with a large sacral decubitus ulcer.  The
Plastic Service was consulted and initially suggested
wet-to-dry dressing changes; however, they were consulted
again on [**2-4**] and debrided it; revealing a stage IV
ulcer.

On [**2-16**], his sputum returned methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus positive, and precautions were
initiated.

Then, on [