Admission Date:  [**2200-2-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2200-2-12**]


Service:  Medicine, [**Doctor Last Name **] Firm

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
2.  Likely recurrent lung cancer.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Hypothyroidism.
5.  Diverticulosis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 87-year-old female
with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and
small cell lung cancer, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and
others who presents with complaints of right-sided pain under
the right breast times several days.  It had been worsening
over the past several days prior to admission.  The patient
stated she has never had pain like this before.  She has had
no relief from Tylenol, and the pain has become worse with
touching and breathing.  The patient specifically feels that
it is in her midline chest and is not her heart.  It is not
worse with deep inspiration.  She feels her breathing is near
normal but does feel sightly increased shortness of breath
because of the pain.  She denies change in the color of her
sputum.  She has had normal thick yellow sputum.  She denies
fever, chills, leg swelling.  She had one plus pillow
orthopaedic.  Breathing is not worse at night.  She also
reports a dry mouth.

She presented to the Emergency [**Hospital1 **] where the patient was
found to be tachypneic and short of breath.  She was given
back to back nebulizers times three, Solu-Medrol 80 mg
intravenously times one, and one liter of intravenous fluids,
and morphine for pain.  A CT angiogram was performed for a
question of pulmonary embolus.  This revealed no pulmonary
embolus but revealed a mass in the right upper lobe of the
lung.  The patient was also given Levaquin 500 mg times one
in the Emergency [**Hospital1 **].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Small cell lung cancer in the right upper lobe, status
post resection.
 2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, on home oxygen;
baseline of 94% on 2.5 liters.
 3.  History of BiPAP and Medical Intensive Care Unit
admissions.
 4.  Hypothyroidism.
 5.  Hypertension.
 6.  Seizure disorder.
 7.  Osteoporosis.
 8.  Status post cerebrovascular accident.
 9.  Spinal stenosis.
10.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
11.  Diverticulosis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Albuterol nebulizers,
aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d., Atrovent nebulizers q.i.d.,
BuSpar 20 mg p.o. t.i.d., clotrimazole, Effexor-XR 150 mg
p.o. q.d., Flovent 220 mcg 3 puffs t.i.d., glyburide 5 mg
p.o. b.i.d., Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d., lorazepam 0.5 mg p.o.
b.i.d. p.r.n., multivitamin, Os-Cal, Peri-Colace,
Persantine 75 mg p.o. b.i.d., phenytoin 100 mg p.o. q.d.,
prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.d., Prempro 0.625 mg p.o.,
Prevacid 40 mg p.o. q.d., Senokot 1 tablet p.o. q.h.s.,
Synthroid 175 mcg p.o. q.d., verapamil-SR 240 mg p.o. q.d.,
Xalatan 0.005% in right eye.

ALLERGIES:  Allergy to NEURONTIN.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives in an [**Hospital3 **] facility.
Stopped tobacco 12 years ago; approximately one half of a
pack per day times 40 years.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   In general, an
elderly female in obvious respiratory distress, speaking in
two to three word sentences with accessory muscle use.  Vital
signs were temperature of 96, pulse 103 to 105, blood
pressure of 200/108, down to 149/97, respiratory rate 29
to 34.  Head, ears, nose, eyes and throat revealed right
surgical pupil.  Left equal and reactive, anicteric.  Mucous
membranes were moist.  Neck revealed no jugular venous
distention was appreciated.  Cardiovascular had a regular
rate and rhythm, though difficult to auscultate heart sounds
over respiratory noises.  Chest revealed bilateral wheezes,
dry crackles, and very coarse sounds, minimal air movement,
reproducible pain in the right breast with palpations.
Abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended, with bowel
sounds.  Extremities revealed no clubbing or cyanosis.  No
Homans sign, and trace edema in bilateral shins.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Admission
laboratories were white blood cell count of 15.5, hematocrit
of 37.7, platelets of 298 (differential of 69.8 neutrophils,
20.8 lymphocytes, 7.8 monocytes, 2.4 eosinophils).
Sodium 140, potassium 4.4, chloride 95, blood urea
nitrogen 16, creatinine 0.6, glucose of 126.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray revealed no pneumonia;
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and osteopenia.


CT angiogram of the chest was negative for pulmonary embolus;
however, a 14-mm X 15-mm right upper lobe and right hilar
lymphadenopathy.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

 1.  PULMONARY/CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE:  The
patient was maintained on intravenous Solu-Medrol 80 mg
intravenously q.8h.   She was continued on albuterol and
Atrovent nebulizers q.4h. p.r.n.

Over the first evening of the admission the patient required
nebulizers q.2h.  On the first morning following admission,
the patient was started on continuous nebulizers as she was
having very little air movement.  An arterial blood gas was
performed which revealed a pH of 7.26, CO2 of 86.

On this basis, the patient was transferred to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  She was do not resuscitate/do not
intubate as confirmed at the time of admission.   However,
she was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
continuous nebulizers.  While in the Intensive Care Unit, the
patient showed improvement with decreased oxygen flow with
improved oxygen saturations and arterial blood gas when
oxygen saturation was maintained at 92% and not higher.  The
patient remained stable in the Intensive Care Unit, and on
the evening of [**2-7**], at approximately 5 o'clock in the
morning, the patient was called out to the floor.

Upon arrival to the floor, the patient was found cyanotic
with a very poor PO2 of 28 on arterial blood gas.  The
patient was given nebulizers times two with dramatic
improvement.  Thereafter, the patient maintained an oxygen
saturation between 90% to 92% on approximately 1.5 liters to
2.5 liters of nasal cannula oxygen.

The patient's respiratory status remained stable throughout
the remainder of the admission.  However, she exhibited
minimal improvement.  She was seen by the Physical Therapy
Service but was unable to exert herself at all without
causing severe pain and desaturations.  On this basis, it was
determined that the patient was not a rehabilitation
candidate.

On [**2200-2-11**], it was determined that the patient's
respiratory status had likely improved as much as possible
and discussions regarding disposition ensued as described
below.

 2.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  For likely pneumonia or
tracheobronchitis leading to chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease exacerbation, the patient's pneumonia was treated
with Levaquin 250 mg p.o. q.d.   The patient did have a
sputum culture which revealed Acinetobacter sensitive to
Levaquin.

 3.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient was continued on verapamil,
aspirin, and Lasix.  Her Persantine was initially continued,
but following the Intensive Care Unit admission this was
changed to Plavix as Persantine can exacerbate chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.

 4.  ENDOCRINE:  For the patient's diabetes, she was
maintained on a regular insulin sliding-scale.  Her sugars
were monitored closely while on Solu-Medrol, and the patient
was continued on glyburide.  For hypothyroidism, she was
continued on Synthroid.

 5.  NEUROLOGY:  For her history of seizure disorder, the
patient was continued on Dilantin.

 6.  PSYCHIATRY:  The patient was continued on her Ativan,
Effexor, and BuSpar throughout the admission.

 7.  ONCOLOGY:  For the patient right upper lobe mass found
on CT angiogram, this was felt to most likely be a recurrence
of the patient's lung cancer which had [**Doctor First Name **] resected in the
past. The patient was informed of this, and a discussion took
place between the attending physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] patient's
daughter, and the patient, and it determined that no further
workup would be undertaken for this presumed recurrent
cancer.

 8.  MUSCULOSKELETAL:  For ongoing right-sided chest pain,
the patient pain remained reproducible and controlled with
Tylenol and morphine.  Possible etiologies included
osteopenia, osteoporosis, rib fracture, or metas