Admission Date:  [**2111-2-23**]     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2067-4-23**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 43 year old
Caucasian male with no significant past medical history who
presents with worsening shortness of breath.  The patient
states that he was in his usual state of health until
approximately eight hours prior to admission.  The patient
had watched the Super Bowl and then went to bed.  He awoke
with right sided chest congestion and pressure along with
cough and shortness of breath.  He was brought to the
Emergency Department where his room air oxygen saturation was
noted to be 89% and his blood pressure was 81/70.  Lactate
level was also drawn which was 4.1.  The patient was entered
into a sepsis protocol.  The patient also notes that he has
had a dry cough for approximately one week.  He states he had
an episode of bronchitis several months ago and was given
antibiotics by his primary care physician.  [**Name10 (NameIs) **] also states
there were sick contacts at work and he was recently exposed
to a young child who apparently had upper respiratory
infection.  He also complains of mild diffuse myalgias and a
mild headache.  He denies any abdominal pain, nausea,
vomiting or diarrhea.  He denies any dysuria.  The patient
confirms that he received influenza vaccination this year.
In the Emergency Department, the patient was given two liters
of normal saline for fluid resuscitation.  He was also given
Ceftriaxone, Levaquin and Bactrim for antibiotics.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hereditary angioedema; the patient has
swelling in the arms and legs with stress or trauma. He
denies any history of throat swelling or respiratory
involvement.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  NyQuil p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies tobacco or alcohol use.
He is in a monogamous homosexual relationship.  He works as a
lawyer.  [**Name (NI) **] was tested for HIV approximately one and one half
years ago and was negative.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, vital signs revealed
temperature 98.2, pulse 133, blood pressure 100/41,
respiratory rate 27, oxygen saturation 94% to 100% on
nonrebreather.  In general, the patient is well developed and
well nourished in mild respiratory distress.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat examination - The pupils are equal,
round, and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular
movements are intact.  The oropharynx is clear with moist
mucous membranes.  Neck is supple with no jugular venous
distention.  Heart examination is tachycardic with normal S1
and S2, regular rate.  Lungs - The patient has diffuse
wheezes bilaterally and decreased breath sounds at the right
upper lung.  There is no egophony.  The abdomen is benign.
Extremities - There is no edema.  There are no rashes.  The
extremities are warm to the touch with good distal pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, complete blood count revealed
a white blood cell count 9.2, with a differential of 67%
neutrophils and 18% bands.  Hematocrit was 37.8 and platelet
count was 218,000.  Chem7 is within normal limits.  Lactate
was 4.3.

Arterial blood gas on 100% nonrebreather showed a pH 7.32,
pCO2 40 and pO2 90.

Chest x-ray significant for right upper lobe consolidation.

Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 126 beats per
minute with left axis deviation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Sepsis - The patient was involved in the MUS protocol for
sepsis.  He was aggressively fluid resuscitated and placed on
broad spectrum antibiotics.  [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 104**] stimulation test was done
which showed that he was a nonresponder.  He was empirically
started on Hydrocortisone, Fludrocortisone which was to be
continued for seven days.  In addition to the fluid
resuscitation, the patient was started on vasopressors for
his hypotension.  He was initially started on Vasopressin and
Levophed and then Dopamine was also added.  The patient was
also involved in a double blinded trial with Cygris.  He took
the Cygris study drug for 96 hours.  After several days of
antibiotic treatment, the patient was able to be weaned off
his pressors.  Initially, the Dopamine was discontinued
followed by the Levophed and Vasopressin.  Following
discontinuation of pressors, the patient maintained normal
blood pressure.  Gradually, his fluid resuscitation was
decreased and he was maintained at an even fluid balance to
slightly negative.

2.  Respiratory failure - After approximately one day in the
hospital, the patient had increased respiratory distress as
well as increased oxygen requirement.  At this time, he was
intubated.  The patient remained intubated for several days
while he was being treated for sepsis and pneumonia.  He was
gradually weaned off mechanical ventilation and extubated six
days after the intubation.  Following extubation, he required
face mask oxygenation, however, he was not in any respiratory
distress.

3.  Pneumonia - By chest x-ray, the patient was seen to have
a right upper lobe pneumonia.  Sputum and blood cultures were
sent.  Following intubation, the patient also had a
bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage.  This was also sent
off for culture.  The patient was initially started on broad
spectrum antibiotics with Ceftriaxone, Levaquin and Flagyl.
Blood cultures eventually grew out pneumococcus and
sensitivities showed that it was pansensitive.  At this time,
the antibiotics were narrowed down to only Levaquin.  This
was continued while in the hospital as the patient showed
gradual and continual improvement.  Repeat chest x-ray showed
gradual resolution of the right upper lobe consolidation.
Repeat surveillance blood and sputum cultures remained
negative.  By x-ray and CAT scan of the chest, the patient
was also seen to have a right lung pleural effusion.  As
there was concern that this might represent an empyema, a
chest tube was placed.  Pleural fluid collected was exudative
although not consistent with empyema. It was likely a
parapneumonic effusion.  Chest tube was left in place for
approximately three days and then removed without any
complications.  The pleural fluid culture hibernates negative
to date.

4.  Cardiovascular - The patient had cardiac enzymes drawn to
rule out acute myocardial infarction.  This showed that this
troponins were elevated at approximately 0.3.  It is possible
that this represented a non Q wave myocardial infarction or
was related to sepsis induced cardiomyopathy.  Transthoracic
echocardiogram was also done which showed a depressed
ejection fraction of 20%.  Given that the patient had no
known history of cardiac disease, this likely represented
sepsis induced cardiomyopathy.  The patient should receive a
repeat echocardiogram once he has clinically improved and is
ready for discharge to reevaluate his cardiac function.  If
his cardiac function remains below normal, he should
follow-up with a cardiologist as an outpatient.

5.  Anemia - While in the hospital, the patient also
developed decreasing hematocrit.  It was not clear if this
was due to mild bleeding from the chest tube site or from
repeated phlebotomy that the patient was receiving.  He did
receive transfusion of one unit of packed red blood cells
during the Medical Intensive Care Unit course, after which
his hematocrit remained stable.

6.  Fevers - The patient continued to have low grade fevers
despite clinical improvement and respiratory status
improvement.  Repeat cultures remained negative and a clear
source for these fevers was not yet identified.

The rest of the [**Hospital 228**] hospital course and discharge
summary will be dictated by another physician who will be
taking over his care.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 8037**], M.D.  [**MD Number(2) 8038**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 5709**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2111-3-1**]  11:28
T:  [**2111-3-1**]  11:46
JOB#:  [**Job Number 46341**]
