Admission Date:  [**2187-10-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2187-10-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2122-3-15**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Neurosurgery

ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:  Trigeminal neuralgia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 65-year-old female who
gives a history of diabetes for which she is on insulin.
Denies any diabetic complications and also a history of
hiatal hernia and sleep apnea for which she uses CPAP system.
She intermittently takes Flovent when she has difficulty
breathing, but does not feel that she carries a diagnosis of
asthma.  In addition, she has a history of mild hypertension
for which she takes Atenolol, and in [**2177**] she had her first
attack of pain in the right side of her face.  The pain has
intermittently been present since then and since [**6-22**] of
this year has been particularly troubled by pain.  The pain
is located in the right upper lip, right upper teeth and gum,
and the right palate.  In addition, the pain can go into the
right lower lip and part of the right lower teeth and gums.
The pain is rarely if ever in the tongue.  Lately, the pain
had begun to radiate up into the right eye and even as far up
toward the vertex of the right side of the head.  Chewing,
talking, brushing teeth, drinking cold fluid and being
exposed to air conditioning can trigger the pain.  There is
no left-sided facial pain.  In the past she has tried
Tegretol, which she does not tolerate, and has no effect or
result with Dilantin.  Depakote has been tried in the past as
well, and she is now taking between 2 and 4 Percocet a day,
as well as Valium 5 mg once or twice a day.  She was referred
for an MRI scan but could not tolerate the scan because of
claustrophobia.  She also carries a diagnosis of
temporomandibular joint disease of the right side and has a
bite frame for that effect.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF ADMISSION:  Humulin NPH 70
units in the morning and 60 units in the evening, Axid 300 mg
po daily, Atenolol 25 mg po daily, Flovent 2 puffs prn and
she takes vitamins on a daily basis.

ALLERGIES:  She is allergic to clindamycin, Biaxin and
amoxicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She does not smoke and has no history of
alcohol abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  She is in general, a well-developed,
well-nourished overweight white female in no acute distress
who at times had facial pain during the visit and
examination.  Speech and affect were otherwise normal.
Cranial nerves II through XII were examined and all found
intact including the fifth cranial nerve where there was
normal sensation to touch and pinprick in all mucous
membranes and on all skin areas.  Finger to nose testing was
within normal limits.  There was no motor weakness.  Gait was
normal.  Tandem gait was slightly unsteady and the head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat, heart, lungs and abdomen were
essentially otherwise unremarkable.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Due to the clinical findings, the patient
was admitted to the hospital and taken to the Operating Room
on the morning of [**2187-10-9**] where under general
endotracheal anesthetic, the patient underwent a right
suboccipital craniotomy and craniectomy with a partial right
trigeminal rhizotomy.  The patient tolerated the procedure
well and went to the Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit
postoperatively for one night, and was stable on the
following morning, and was then subsequently discharged to
the floor.  Hospital course was otherwise unremarkable.  The
patient noted very good relief of her trigeminal neuralgia
tick pain and noted mild hypoesthesia of the right side of
the face in primarily the V2 and V3 branches of the
trigeminal nerve postoperatively.  The remainder of the
patient's postoperative course was essentially unremarkable.
She was noted to be ambulating and free of tic pain
throughout the remainder of the hospitalization.  Her in's
and out's were satisfactory, and she was subsequently
discharge home on [**10-14**] with follow up to be seen in
approximately one weeks time for staple removal from the
wound and in approximately three to four weeks time for
follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 6910**] in the clinic.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable and improved.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Trigeminal neuralgia, right side.





                          [**Name6 (MD) 6911**] [**Name8 (MD) **], MD  [**MD Number(1) 6913**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info **]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2187-10-15**]  22:15
T:  [**2187-10-15**]  22:15
JOB#:  [**Job Number 35600**]
