Admission Date:  [**2120-1-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2120-1-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2045-9-21**]     Sex:  F

Service:

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Aortoenteric fistula.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Aortoenteric fistula.
2.  Status post exploratory laparotomy.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Past surgical history is significant
for aortobifemoral bypass seven years ago.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was admitted to an
outside hospital with complaints of left lower extremity
ischemia.  On examination, the patient was noted to have lost
the left femoral pulse and was taken to the operating room at
the outside hospital for suspected thrombosis of the left
limb of the aortobifemoral bypass graft.  The patient was
taken to the operating room and underwent a left groin
cutdown with thrombectomy.  Of note, after the thrombectomy
and catheter was placed for the second, the patient was noted
to have massive upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage at this
time in the operating room.  The patient underwent
esophagogastroduodenoscopy which showed a large amount of
blood in the second and third portion of the duodenum.  No
active bleeding was noted.  No evidence of peptic ulcer
disease.  At this time, the area was lavaged.  There was no
more active bleeding noted.  At this time, the thrombectomy
was then completed.  The artery was closed.  The patient was
noted to no longer have any upper gastrointestinal
hemorrhage.  At this time, she was taken to the Recovery Room
at which time the Vascular Service and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] her at
[**Hospital1 69**] was contact[**Name (NI) **] regarding
transfer for possible aortoenteric fistula.  Of note, the
patient was moderately hypotensive at the outside
institution; however, it was felt by the referring physician
that the patient was stable enough for transfer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  The patient was then
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] directly
to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit.  However, she arrived in
stable condition.  Her blood pressure was stable.  Her heart
was normal.  She was intubated but appropriately responsive.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   Of note, on admission, her
laboratories included a hematocrit of 27.4, white blood cell
count of 27.5, platelet count was actually 88.  PTT was 36.
PT was 12.8.  SMA-7 revealed sodium of 136, potassium of 5.2,
chloride of 107, total bicarbonate was 23, blood urea
nitrogen of 41, creatinine of 1.3, glucose of 122.  Magnesium
was 1.4 on admission; and these are the admission
laboratories that the patient had.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was brought to the Intensive
Care Unit and the appropriate lines were placed.  The patient
was begun on resuscitative fluids.  Her urine output was
noted to be good.  At this time, Gastrointestinal was
consulted while the patient was being admitted for urgent
endoscopy.  Approximately 45 minutes after the patient's
arrival, the Gastrointestinal team was ready to perform and
endoscopy when the patient was again noted to have bright red
blood via the nasogastric tube and some hematemesis at this
time.  An emergent endoscopy was performed as the surgical
operating room was being prepared for her emergent
laparotomy.  Endoscopy revealed no visible bleeding lesions;
however, again, a large amount of blood in the second and
third portion of the duodenum.

Without delaying the surgery, the endoscopy was completed,
and the patient was rushed to the operating room.  She was
given 4 units of packed red blood cell transfusion prior to
making it to the operating room; 2 units at the outside
hospital and 2 units in the Intensive Care Unit.

The patient was taken to the operating room where she
underwent exploratory laparotomy with attempted repair and
closure of the duodenal fistula.  However, because of the
long history of steroid use and the dense scarring in the
abdomen and the friability of the aorta, control could not
obtained and the patient exsanguinated in the operating room.

The patient was pronounced by the attending anesthesiologist
and attending vascular surgeon, and the medical examiner was
informed.  The family was also informed, and the patient
again was declared at the end of the procedure.



                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4417**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 39432**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2120-2-12**]  10:12
T:  [**2120-2-13**]  12:05
JOB#:  [**Job Number 39433**]
