Admission Date:  [**2198-12-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2199-1-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2142-9-26**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 56 year old female
with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure with an
ejection fraction of approximately 20%, hypertension,
diabetes type 2 and hyperlipidemia, who presented to an
outside hospital on [**2198-12-17**], with a chief complaint
of increasing shortness of breath and paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea along with orthopnea for about one week prior to
presenting.  Chest x-ray at that time was consistent with
congestive heart failure.  EKG in the emergency department
showed extensive anterior MI with an aneurysm along with
possible inferior wall MI.  Enzymes taken at that time showed
CK values of 42, 43 and 39.  However, troponin was 7.9 and
7.9.  Cardiology consult determined that patient likely had
an anterior wall myocardial infarction about one week prior
to presenting to the emergency room.  An echo and P-MIBI
showed a dilated left ventricle with diffuse hypokinesis of
the left ventricle.  Ejection fraction was estimated to be
about 20%.  It was also noted that she had a large apical
inferior wall infarct.  At that time patient refused
intervention and she was treated medically with aspirin,
statin, beta blocker and ACE inhibitor along with symptomatic
diuresis.  On [**12-22**] patient went into ventricular
tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation arrest.  She was
defibrillated once with 200 joules and subsequently went into
asystole.  At that time 1 mg of epi was given and she
converted to narrow complex tachycardia alternating with wide
complex tachycardia.  She was intubated and started on amio
drip.  On [**12-23**] patient suffered another episode of
sustained VT while on the amio drip.  She was defibrillated
with 200 joules to sinus brady at which point atropine was
given.  An additional amiodarone bolus was given.  On
[**12-24**] patient suffered her third ventricular fib arrest
and was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
for emergent cardiac catheterization and further evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.  Diabetes mellitus.
Hyperlipidemia.  Peripheral vascular disease, status post
left femoral-popliteal bypass along with left toe amputation.
COPD.  Coronary artery disease, status post myocardial
infarction.  Congestive heart failure with ejection fraction
estimated at 20%.  Cerebrovascular accident with baseline
left facial droop and left sided weakness.

MEDICATIONS:  Lipitor 10 mg q.d., Glucotrol 10 mg in the
morning and 10 mg in the evening, Avandia 8 q.d., Glucophage
500 mg in the morning and 1000 mg in the evening.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She denies alcohol use.  She has a three
packs per day smoking history.

FAMILY HISTORY:  CAD.  Diabetes mellitus.  Hypertension.

CARDIAC STUDIES:  The patient had a P-MIBI on [**2198-12-19**], that showed marked LV dilatation with diffuse
hypokinesis of the left ventricle.  It also showed a large
apical periapical and inferior wall infarct.  Ejection
fraction was estimated at 20%.  An echocardiogram was
performed on [**2198-12-18**].  This showed decreased left
ventricular function with an ejection fraction estimated at
30%.  Left ventricle showed an inferior akinetic wall along
with inferoseptal anterior wall akinesis.  The apex was
dyskinetic, but she did have preserved posterior and lateral
walls.  Patient was also noted to have mild MR along with
trace TR and AR.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was afebrile with heart
rate of 52, blood pressure 120/80, respiratory rate 18, O2
sat greater than 95%.  In general, she was a sedated,
intubated, obese female in no apparent distress.  Neck was
without jugular venous distention or lymphadenopathy.  Chest
was clear to auscultation bilaterally anteriorly.  Heart
sounds were difficult to hear, but there were no murmurs,
gallops or rubs appreciated.  Abdomen was obese with a well
healed mid-abdominal surgical scar.  Hepatosplenomegaly could
not be appreciated.  Extremities showed +1 edema bilaterally,
left great toe amputation, +1 DP and an intra-aortic balloon
pump was in place.

LABORATORY DATA:  Initial labs showed sodium of 137,
potassium 3.4, chloride 98, bicarb 27, BUN 47, creatinine
1.6, glucose 206.  Calcium was 7.6, phosphate 4.3, magnesium
2.3.  Liver function tests were within normal range.  Initial
gas was 7.40, PCO2 40, PO2 121 on 100% FIO2.  CK was 107, MB
1, troponin 2.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This 56 year old woman with a history of
coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, diabetes
mellitus and hypertension was admitted to an outside hospital
approximately one week after suffering an anterior wall
infarct.  P-MIBI at that time showed her ejection fraction to
be 20% with a large inferior wall infarct with diffuse
hypokinesis of the left ventricle.  Patient had three
episodes of v-tach/v-fib arrest at the outside hospital.  She
was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
emergent PCI.

The cardiac cath revealed severely increased right and left
ventricular filling pressures.  PA systolic pressure was 70.
Wedge was 31.  Cardiac output was 3.1 with cardiac index of
1.4.  Right coronary had proximal 30% stenosis along with
distal 80% stenosis.  Right PDA showed 60% stenosis.  Left
main had 50% stenosis.  LAD had 50% proximal stenosis along
with 99% mid-stenosis.  Left circumflex revealed 90% proximal
stenosis along with 90% mid-stenosis.  At the time of cardiac
cath no intervention was performed.  She was transferred to
the floor for further evaluation.

After being transferred to the floor patient was evaluated by
the CT surgery team.  The CT surgery team requested that a
viability study be performed to assess the status of the
anterior wall.  The viability study could not determine with
any certainty the viability of the anterior wall.  A MIBI was
performed which showed just a small portion of the anterior
wall being viable.  CT surgery was consulted again and they
deemed her a nonoperable candidate.  The congestive heart
failure team was also consulted and patient was deemed a poor
transplant candidate.  After discussion with the family, it
was decided that patient would be made DNR/DNI.  However,
after waking up, patient gestured that she would like to be
resuscitated and would also like to be intubated if the issue
arose.  Patient did suffer one episode of ventricular
tachycardia/ventricular fibrillation arrest for which she was
successfully resuscitated.  She remained on a lidocaine drip
along with an ACE inhibitor, aspirin and a statin drug.
Unfortunately, patient could not tolerate amiodarone
secondary to decreased cardiac output and bradycardia.  It
was determined to start her on dofetilide.  She received the
first dose and an EKG was ordered to evaluate her QTc.  QTc
was within normal range.

The issue of her code status was addressed with both her and
her family once again.  Her entire family wished that she be
made DNR/DNI.  After discussing with patient, she also
expressed her wishes to be made DNR/DNI at that time.
Unfortunately, on [**2199-1-1**], at approximately 10:45
patient went into ventricular tachycardia/ventricular
fibrillation arrest. Her two sisters were at bedside.  She
was made comfortable.  She passed away at approximately 11:00
o'clock on [**2199-1-1**], from arrhythmia.






                     DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) 251**] 12-191

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 23886**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2199-1-1**]  12:10
T:  [**2199-1-1**]  16:07
JOB#:  [**Job Number 46086**]
