Admission Date:  [**2189-10-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2189-11-12**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **] year old man
with past medical history of right MCA stroke times three
years ago with residual left hemiparesis.  He presents with
generalized tonic seizure around 15 minutes while at home
this evening.  His wife stated that he was in his usual state
of good health when he seemed "more tired" than usual.  He
took a nap and afterward walked around, although seemed a
little groggy.  The patient was then noted to start shaking
all over his arms and legs.  EMS was called the patient was
observed for 15 minutes.  He was given 5 mg of Valium IVP
with resolution of seizure activity.  EMS notes that he was
able to move his head afterward when his name was called.
The patient was also noted to be in atrial fibrillation which
was new.  The patient was incontinent of stool.  On the way
to the emergency room the patient started to seize again and
again was loaded with Valium 2.5 mg with resolution of
seizure.  In the E.D. he was given Ativan 2 mg, fentanyl,
lidocaine and succinylcholine and was intubated.  He received
ceftriaxone 2 gm empirically, vanco 1 gm, started on an
insulin drip.  Prior to sedation the patient was minimally
responsive, would attempt to move his right arm, open his
eyes to sternal rub.  LP was attempted and was initially
unsuccessful.  The patient was admitted to the MICU for
further workup of new seizure and loaded with Dilantin.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  BPH.  Right MCA stroke with left
hemiparesis.  No history of diabetes or atrial fibrillation
per wife.

MEDICATIONS:  One aspirin a day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives at home with wife and son who helps
take care of him.  Walks with a walker for many years.  Does
not drink or smoke.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission vital signs afebrile,
125/78, pulse 88, respirations 18, intubated, sedated.  Exam
done off propofol for five to 10 minutes.  Increased tone on
neck exam.  Neurologic exam revealed cranial nerves grossly
intact with inability to assess full motor and sensory exams.

LABORATORY DATA:  A CT was obtained which showed a large area
of old attenuation in the right MCA territory consistent with
old infarct unchanged from prior.  No evidence of hemorrhage.
ABG showed no significant derangement.  UA was positive for
gross glucose.  Chem-7 was pertinent for creatinine of 1.5.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the MICU for
continual care.

Unresponsiveness.  Clinical concern is for recurrent CVA. LP
was negative for evidence of viral or bacterial infection.
Secondary MRI negative for evidence of new stroke.  Continued
on Dilantin titrated per level.  The patient was extubated
without difficulty, although mental status continued to be
guarded.  The patient was discontinued off antibiotic therapy
per recommendations of neurology on hospital day three.  On
hospital day four acyclovir was discontinued secondary to
negative PCR HSV.  Mental status continued to be guarded.
The patient was transferred to the floor for further care and
monitoring.  NG tube was placed for aspiration precautions.
Several speech and swallows were attempted on multiple
occasions, but due to progressive decline in mental status,
the patient could not pass the swallowing study and was at
risk for aspiration.

Initial plan for treatment with insertion of a G-tube was
initiated.  Per discussions with family, the patient was made
DNR/DNI.  On hospital day seven the patient developed a
temperature and was started empirically for possible
aspiration pneumonia.  Chest x-ray obtained showed bilateral
infiltrates consistent with possible evolving chemical
pneumonitis.  O2 sats remained stable.  The patient
defervesced the following day.  Repeat chest x-ray showed
resolution of base infiltrates.  Mental status continued to
be impaired.  Repeat bedside swallowing evaluation was
performed which indicated the patient still was a significant
aspiration risk.

On the evening of [**2189-11-12**] the patient became acutely
tachypneic to the 40s, decline of O2 sat to 90 percent on 100
percent nonrebreather. ABG was obtained at that time
consistent with likely aspiration.  A family meeting was
obtained at that time and the decision to change code status
to CMO measures, treating with scopolamine and morphine.  The
patient expired on [**2189-11-12**] at approximately 3:00 p.m.
secondary to respiratory failure and was pronounced dead.
The family was at bedside with support by medical team.  The
patient was pronounced dead on [**2189-11-12**].






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 10477**], MD  [**MD Number(2) 11775**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 972**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2189-11-15**]  13:42
T:  [**2189-11-15**]  16:52
JOB#:  [**Job Number 11776**]
