Admission Date: [**2200-1-27**]        Discharge Date: [**2200-2-6**]


Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left leg ischemia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 89-year-old white
female who was admitted for an axillo-bifemoral bypass graft
secondary to left leg ischemic changes. The patient could not
ambulate any more than 20 feet. She complained of bilateral
leg weakness with ambulation, left greater than right, and
she did admit to rest pain.

REVIEW OF SYMPTOMS:  Negative for diabetes or thyroid
disease. She does have voice raspiness, and this is secondary
to traumatic intubation 1 year ago. She denies peptic ulcer
disease, melena, bloody stools, kidney stones and liver
disease. She does have a history of angina. She has
palpitations occasionally. Heart murmur. She denies
myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure. She denies
fever, chills or sweats. She denies CVA, TIA, seizures and
amaurosis.

Preoperative ultrasound of the carotids demonstrated less
than 40% bilateral internal and external coronary artery
disease. The patient's MRA, done secondary to her renal
insufficiency, showed a right common iliac stenosis with
plaque. The left common iliac was stenosed. The right SFA and
PFA was diseased. The collaterals to the knee and popliteal
is with runoff via the peroneal and PT. On the left, the
common femoral artery had diseased SFA and PFA, occluded, but
reconstructed from collaterals from the PFA. The popliteal
was with severe disease. The dominant runoff vessel of the
left foot was the posterior tibial vessel. The patient denies
any interval change since last seen.

ALLERGIES:  Heparin, CPR, does not recall actual
manifestation of allergy. Aspirin causes GI upset. Nevarcone;
the patient is not aware of the medication or any allergies.
Nitroglycerin disk; denies any allergies, although it is
indicated on her medical history.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Potassium 20 mEq q.48 hours,
enalapril 10 mg daily, Lopressor 50 mg b.i.d., Lexapro 10 mg
daily, Lasix 10 mg daily, Lipitor 20 mg daily, Combivent
multidose inhaler q.i.d. p.r.n., Tylenol p.r.n.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Peripheral vascular disease,
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, bilateral cataract status
post excision and lens replacement, history of toxic shock
secondary to pneumonia requiring intubation, history of
coronary artery disease, history of GERD.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Left meniscectomy, bilateral cataract
surgery, vertebroplasty secondary to compression fractures in
[**2198**], angioplasty of coronary arteries with stenting x 2,
artery done not known; this was done at [**Hospital 64726**] Hospital in
[**2199**]. Her cardiologist is Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in [**Location (un) 976**] [**State 350**].
The patient's primary care physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6160**],
[**Telephone/Fax (1) 64727**].

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone and uses assist
device with ambulation. She has not smoked for 30 years. She
uses alcohol rarely.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs: Blood pressure in the
right arm was 180/60, left arm 118/80. HEENT: No JVD.
Carotids 1+, palpable pulses bilaterally. The left carotid is
with a bruit which radiates to the subclavian. The thyroid is
not enlarged. Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Heart: Regular rate and rhythm with a 3/6 systolic ejection
murmur at the base which radiates to the apex. Abdomen: Soft,
nontender, nondistended, protuberant. Bowel sounds are quiet
x 4. There are no bruits or masses. Extremities: Peripheral
vascular exam shows the left toe with ruborous cyanosis which
extends to the dorsum of the foot and the temperature of the
toes were cool. On the right, there is a femoral bruit. Pulse
exam shows palpable brachial and radial arteries at 1+,
femorals are 1+ and palpable. The DP and PT are Doppler
signals on the right and absent on the left. Neurologic: The
patient is oriented times 3 and nonfocal.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the vascular
service. She was prepared for surgery. She underwent, on
[**2200-1-28**], a right axillo-bifemoral bypass graft. She
tolerated the procedure well. The patient remained stable in
the PACU and was transferred to the intensive care unit
secondary to requiring argatroban for anticoagulation
postoperatively. The patient was continued on cefazolin. Swan
remained in place. The patient had some prominent pulmonary
congestion. The patient did have hypotension postoperatively.
A repeat echocardiogram was done which showed significant
aortic stenosis but no changes in the left ventricular
function.

Her diet was advanced as tolerated. She was noted to have a
decreased platelet count which was serially monitored. She
also required transfusion of 1 unit of packed red blood cells
for a postoperative hematocrit of 29.2. EKGs were without
changes. The CK and MBs were flat. Posttransfusion hematocrit
was 28.2.

ambulation was begun on postoperative day 2. She was begun on
clear fluids. The Swan was converted to CVP. Coumadin was
started.

The patient had an episode of waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**] mental status
changes on postoperative day 3 and an episode of SVT at a
rate of 140 which responded to IV Lopressor. Chest x-ray
showed probably congestive heart failure. She continued on IV
Lasix drip with improvement in her respiratory status.

On postoperative day 4, the patient became mildly
hypotensive, and the Lasix was discontinued. The patient had
no further episodes of SVT. Her hematocrit remained stable at
27.3, BUN 14, creatinine 0.9. The graft was palpable. Feet
were warm.

The patient was placed on aspiration precautions. Her HIT was
negative, and there was slow return on her platelet count.

The patient was transferred to the VICU for continued
monitoring and care. On postoperative day 5, the patient
continued to diurese. She tolerated her p.o. intake.
Incisions were clean, dry and intact. Pulse exam remained
unchanged. Ambulation was continued. Physical therapy
evaluated the patient and felt that she would benefit from
rehab, since she was not safe to be discharged to home.

The patient continued on a heparin-to-Warfarin transition.
The arterial line was discontinued on postoperative day 6.
Chest x-ray showed continued improvement. On postoperative
day 7, she continued to progress and remained afebrile.

Geriatric service was consulted secondary to postoperative
delirium. The patient's left heel revealed some stage I
decubitus changes, and a waffle boot was applied to the foot
for off-loading.

On postoperative day 8, the patient had CKs drawn for
questionable angina but so far have been flat. Troponins have
been flat. EKGs have been without significant change.

The patient will be discharged to rehab when medically
stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Albuterol/ipratropium aerosol 1-2
puffs q.6 hours as needed, ipratropium bromide 0.02% solution
inhalation q.2-3 hours if needed for dyspnea, albuterol
sulfate solution inhalation q.2-3 hours if needed,
acetaminophen/codeine 300/30 mg tablets [**11-25**] q.4 hours p.r.n.
as needed, acetazolamide 250 mg q.6 hours, Lopressor 25 mg
b.i.d., Protonix 40 mg daily, Diltiazem 60 mg q.i.d.,
Dulcolax tablets 2 p.r.n., Colace 100 mg b.i.d., senna
tablets 8.6 mg 1 b.i.d., atorvastatin 10 mg daily, warfarin 2
mg daily.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient should followup with her
primary care physician for regular monitoring of her INR.
This was started for graft patency. The goal INR is 2.0-3.0.
This should be monitored at rehab and again by her primary
care physician upon discharge from rehab. The patient may
shower but no tub baths. No lifting greater than 2 lb for a
total of 6 weeks. No overhead trapezius on the bed. No
hyperextension of right arm. Continue all medications as
directed. Continue to take stool softener while taking pain
medication.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Left leg ischemia.
2.  History of hypertension.
3.  History of hypercholesterolemia.
4.  History of ischemic heart disease status post
    percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of coronary artery
    with stenting x 2.
5.  History of carotid disease with bilatera