Admission Date:  [**2187-6-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2187-6-20**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is an 80-year-old female
with past medical history of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease on chronic steroids, congestive heart failure, atrial
fibrillation, sick sinus syndrome status post pacemaker,
history of adenocarcinoma of the colon status post resection,
status post left CEA, osteoporosis, and gastroesophageal
reflux disease, who reported a one week history of worsening
dyspnea on exertion and four hours of substernal chest pain
that did not radiate, and was accompanied by shortness of
breath.  No nausea or diaphoresis when she presented to
[**Hospital3 **] on the [**10-10**].

In the [**Location (un) **] Emergency Department, her vital signs were
notable for a respiratory rate of 30, O2 saturation 98% on 2
liters of O2 nasal cannula, diffuse wheezes on her lung
examination, T-wave inversions in V3 through V6 I and aVL,
T-wave flattening in II, and no acute ST changes.

Laboratories were significant for a white count of 20.3, a
troponin of 0.9 with negative CK MB index, and a basic
metabolic panel high at 525.  The patient was admitted to
[**Hospital3 **], and was treated for a chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease exacerbation with steroids, nebulizers, and
antibiotics as well as being treated for congestive heart
failure exacerbation with diuresis, who clinically she did
not look volume overloaded, and initial chest x-ray was not
consistent with pulmonary vascular congestion.

During the approximate one week that she was at [**Location (un) **], she
developed new infiltrates on chest x-ray and worsening
shortness of breath, and respiratory distress.  On the [**9-16**], [**First Name3 (LF) **] arterial blood gas was 7.42, 48, and 60 with an O2
saturation of 91% on 5 liters nasal cannula.  Notably on the
day of admission, an arterial blood gas similar 5 liters of
nasal cannula had a pAO2 of 102.  The patient was then
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
further management.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ARRIVAL AT [**Hospital1 **]:  Temperature 98.8, pulse 68, blood pressure 161/48,
respiratory rate 40, O2 saturation 98% on nonrebreather, PA
pressure 36/11 with a mean of 22, CVP 2-8.  General:  The
patient was awake, alert, and oriented times three, speaking
in short sentences with positive accessory muscle use for
respiration.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive
to light.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Anicteric
sclerae.  Oropharynx was positive for thrush.  Neck was
supple.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rhythm, tachycardic, no
murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Lungs:  Diffuse inspiratory and
expiratory wheezes with prolonged expiration and no crackles.
Abdomen is soft, nontender, and distended with positive bowel
sounds.  Extremities:  No edema.

LABORATORIES:  White count of 34.3.  Differential:  93%
neutrophils, 2% lymphocytes, 5% monocytes.  Hemoglobin 11.9,
hematocrit 34.4, and platelets 109.  Sodium 127, potassium
4.7, chloride 87, bicarb 30, BUN 41, creatinine 1.3, glucose
272.  Calcium 8.1, phosphorus 3.6, magnesium 2.3, albumin
3.5, INR 1.3.  Troponin less than 0.01.  CPK 386, CK MB 9.

CHEST X-RAY:  With hyperinflation, but no focal infiltrates
or pulmonary vascular redistribution.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  Sinus rhythm, normal axis, normal
intervals, no acute ST changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Respiratory distress:  On arrival, the patient was started
on noninvasive masked ventilation with BiPAP, driving
pressure 12, and expiratory pressure 5 with improved
oxygenation and ventilation as well as a decreased
respiratory rate, although the patient still had increased
work of breathing, and was continued on this regimen
throughout her hospital course.  The patient had an advanced
directive and health care proxy, and had spoke with us, and
made it clear that she did not wish to be intubated not
resuscitated.

The etiology of her respiratory distress was unclear,
although on presentation to [**Hospital1 **], she had
very poor air movement and significant diffuse wheezing
making chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation a
very likely contributing factor.  For this, she was treated
with high dosed steroids, initially 60 mg of IV Solu-Medrol
q8h.  This was then increased to 125 mg.  She was also
treated with albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers q2-3h and
continued on broad-spectrum antibiotics, Vancomycin and
ceftazidime.  Patient was also treated with congestive heart
failure with gentle diuresis with Lasix.  Sputum cultures for
aerobic respiratory pathogens, fungi, tuberculosis, and
legionella remained negative throughout her stay.  Amiodarone
was held secondary to concerns for pulmonary toxicity.

Despite this treatment, the patient did not improve her
respiratory status during her hospitalization.

2. Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction:  The patient ruled
on for myocardial infarction at outside hospital, though
troponins were normal while she was at [**Hospital1 **],
and she did not have electrocardiogram with ischemic changes.
The patient was put on aspirin as well as hydralazine and
nitroglycerin patch for afterload reduction.  Beta blockers
were held secondary to her chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease exacerbation.

3. Atrial fibrillation:  The patient was rate controlled with
verapamil and initially with digoxin, though that was
subsequently held when the patient developed hyperkalemia.
Her amiodarone was held secondary to concerns for pulmonary
toxicity and her Coumadin was held secondary to hematuria and
a falling hematocrit.

4. Kidney function:  While here, the patient developed acute
renal failure with a rising BUN and creatinine and a falling
urine output.  Etiology of this was unclear, and the patient
did not respond to diuresis for fluid boluses.

5. Hematology:  During her hospital stay, the patient's white
blood cell count increased to a maximum of 41.3.  The
etiology of this was unclear whether it was an infectious
cause despite negative cultures or whether it might have been
for hematologic reasons.

Given the patient's respiratory distress that did not improve
and the onset of renal failure with decreasing urine output
and increasing potassium, as well as the patient's




                         [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7585**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 8978**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2187-6-22**]  13:32
T:  [**2187-6-27**]  06:15
JOB#:  [**Job Number 42148**]
