Admission Date:  [**2121-5-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2121-6-10**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS WITH SUMMARY OF MICU COUSRE AND
COURSE ON THE GENERAL MEDICAL FLOOR:  The patient is a 68
year-old male with a history of coronary artery disease who
had a non Q wave myocardial infarction in [**2121-3-7**]
status post stent to his left circumflex in [**2121-3-7**],
elevated cholesterol, hypertension, peripheral vascular
disease and chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline
creatinine of 2.5 as well as a seizure disorder who presented
to [**Hospital1 69**] on [**2121-5-24**].
The patient was initially found to be hypoxic and hypotensive
as well as obtunded and he was subsequently intubated in the
Emergency Department.  His initial workup in the Intensive
Care Unit was consistent with septic shock.  The patient had
an initial cardiac workup consistent with an inferior
myocardial infarction, which was thought to be secondary to
demand ischemia in the setting of his hypotension.  His peak
CK was 665.  Repeat echocardiogram on [**5-26**] revealed a
mildly decreased ejection fraction compared to prior as well
as 1 to 2+ mitral regurgitation, posterolateral akinesis and
mildly elevated right ventricular pressures.  The patient
required pressor support in the Intensive Care Unit with
Dopamine and Levophed, which was weaned off on [**5-27**].  The
patient was later noted to be hypertensive and was treated
with Lopressor and Norvasc.  He has a history of a seizure
disorder for which there were no acute issues on this
hospitalization.  A head CT on admission was negative.

In the Intensive Care Unit the patient was on pressure
support ventilation and remained intubated until [**6-1**]
secondary to a mixed metabolic acidosis with a bicarbonate
level as low as 12 to 14.  He received bicarbonate
replacement and was ultimately extubated on [**6-1**].  The
patient has subsequently had several night time desaturations
while in the Intensive Care Unit following his extubation,
which were attributed to mucous plugging versus congestive
heart failure.  At that time he seemed to respond to gentle
diuresis.  The patient was evaluated for these nocturnal
episodes for question of obstructive sleep apnea, but he was
felt not to be a candidate.  Regarding his sepsis picture the
patient was initially treated for aspiration pneumonia with
Levofloxacin and Clindamycin.  On [**5-25**] Vancomycin and
Ceftazidime were added after his sputum revealed gram
positive coxae and gram negative rods and his white blood
cell count increased to 35,000.  He subsequently developed
some loose stools and the Clindamycin was changed to Flagyl.
He was subsequently found to be C-diff negative.  Urine and
sputum cultures were then positive for beta hemolytic strep,
which was thought to be the organism causing his sepsis
likely originating as a pneumonia.  The patient's antibiotic
regimen was then tailored to include Ceftriaxone,
Levofloxacin and Flagyl.

Prior to his discharge from the Intensive Care Unit the
patient had an additional bump in his white blood cell count.
 On [**2121-5-31**] the patient's central lines were resited and
Ceftazidime was restarted for concern for hospital acquired
pneumonias.  Ceftriaxone was discontinued at that time.  At
the time of his transfer to the floor the patient was on
Levofloxacin, Flagyl and Ceftazidime.  Regarding his acidosis
with bicarbonate supplementation the patient's bicarbonate
was noted to increase from 12 to 22.  He was continued on
oral bicarbonate repletion, which we then continued on the
floor.  It was thought that the patient had a distal renal
tubular acidosis in the setting of his acute on chronic renal
insufficiency probably exacerbated by his sepsis.  The
patient was also noted to have a mild upper GI bleed early on
in his MICU course, which was thought to be secondary to
stress gastritis.  He continued to have some OB positive
stools while in the Intensive Care Unit, but his hematocrit
remained stable throughout.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Chronic renal insufficiency with
left renal artery stenosis with a baseline creatinine of 2.5.
2.  Seizure disorder generalized tonic clonic seizures.  3.
Dementia.  4.  Depression.  5.  History of gastrointestinal
bleed.  6.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.  7.
Hypertension.  8.  Elevated cholesterol.  9.  Chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  10.  Peripheral vascular
disease.  11.  Coronary artery disease status post stenting
and percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.  12.
History of urinary retention.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER FROM THE INTENSIVE CARE UNIT:  1.
Aspirin 325 mg po q day.  2.  Lipitor 20 mg po q.d.  3.
Phenobarbital 45 mg po b.i.d.  4.  Albuterol MDI.  5.
Atrovent MDI.  6.  Tums 1 gram t.i.d.  7.  Norvasc 10 mg po
q.d.  8.  Dilantin 300 mg po q.d.  9.  Nystatin 10 cc q 6
hours prn.  10.  Free water boluses 375 cc q.i.d.  11.
Levofloxacin day number twelve.  12.  Ceftazidime day number
five.  13.  Flagyl day number twelve.  14.  Lopressor 37.5 mg
po b.i.d.  15.  Protonix 40 mg po b.i.d.  16.  Metamucil prn.
17.  Bicarbonate tablets.  18.  Isordil 10 mg po t.i.d.  19.
SubQ heparin.

ALLERGIES:  The patient with allergies to ace inhibitors,
Hydralazine and codeine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient smoked and has a sixty pack year
history of tobacco.  He denies alcohol.  He is a resident at
[**Hospital3 2558**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON TRANSFER FROM THE MEDICAL INTENSIVE
CARE UNIT TO THE FLOOR ON [**2121-6-4**]:  Vital signs
temperature 98.8.  Pulse 55 to 74.  Blood pressure 80 to
160/41 to 85.  Respiratory rate 19 to 34.  Pulse ox 92 to 97%
on 5 liters.  Examination general appearance, the patient is
awake, alert and generally well appearing, but tachypneic,
otherwise in no acute distress.  HEENT pupils are equal,
round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.
Mucous membranes are moist.  Oropharynx is clear.  Neck with
no appreciable JVD.  Cardiovascular regular rate and rhythm.
Normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs.  Lungs poor air movement
bilaterally with decreased breath sounds at the bases
bilaterally, right greater then left.  No wheezes.  Faint
crackles.  Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended with active
bowel sounds.  Extremities, his left arm is in a sling.  The
left hip has some ecchymoses, which is nontender to
palpation.  No edema.

LABORATORIES ON TRANSFER:  Sodium 145, potassium 4.1,
chloride 110, bicarbonate 21, BUN 67, creatinine 2.6, glucose
146, calcium 8.6, magnesium 2.1, phosphate 3.5.  Chest x-ray
on [**6-4**] showed consolidation in both lung bases right
greater then left with resolution of the ground glass opacity
in the right middle lobe.  No pneumothorax.  There is an old
left proximal humeral fracture.  As noted echocardiogram on
[**5-26**] revealed slightly decreased left ventricular
ejection fraction of 40% compared to prior.  Posterolaterally
akinesis and 1 to 2+ MR.  CT of the abdomen and pelvis on
[**5-26**] revealed bilateral bibasilar consolidations right
greater then left and atrophied left kidney with a cyst on
the right. Evidence of prior pinning of the right hip with an
old ischial fracture.  Pertinent microbiology cultures, urine
and sputum cultures from [**5-23**] and [**5-24**] grew out group B
strep.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiovascular:  The patient with a
history of coronary artery disease status post a prior
inferior myocardial infarction and stenting in the setting of
his sepsis and hypotension as well as his anemia, the patient
ruled in for a non Q wave myocardial infarction, which was
not intervened on further given likely etiology being demand
ischemia.  Repeat echocardiogram showed slightly decreased
ejection fraction compared to prior admission.  During this
hospitalization the patient was continued on Lopresor,
Isordil, aspirin and Lipitor.  The patient with a history of
congestive heart failure.  He received aggressive hydration
in the setting of his sepsis and had issues related to
congestive heart failure while in the Intensive Care Unit.
Upon his transfer to the floor he was generally diuresed to
keep him approximately 500 to a liter and negative each d