Admission Date:  [**2156-2-26**]     Discharge Date:  [**2156-3-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2078-2-6**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Hospital1 **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
flare.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77 year-old man with a
history of mild emphysema and hypertension transferred from
an outside hospital after an exacerbation of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  The patient was reportedly
not feeling well and awoke feeling fatigued and short of
breath at rest.  Over the course of the following three days
the patient became more short of breath and then had
decreased po intake.  At that time the patient had no cough,
fever or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea or
congestion on the day of admission.  He was seen by his
primary medical doctor and noted to be tachypneic and
hypoxic.  He was noted to have an O2 saturation of 70% on
room air.  He was advised to go to the Emergency Department
and on arrival he had a respiratory rate of 32 and was
satting in the 97% range on 100% nonrebreather mask.  The
patient had a white blood cell count of 17 at the outside
hospital and arterial blood gas, which showed a gas of 7.16,
90, 67.  The patient became progressively more hypoxic to 87
on 100% nonrebreather and the patient was intubated and noted
to have thick yellow secretions following intubation.  He
received Combivent and Methylprednisolone, Lasix and
Levofloxacin at the outside hospital.  He was then
transferred to the [**Hospital1 69**] MICU
for further definitive care.

MICU COURSE:  The patient's respiratory status improved over
the course of the MICU stay.  His FIO2 was weaned.  He was
50% on the second day of the stay.  His arterial blood gas
improved to 7.30/59/94 and he remained hemodynamically stable
throughout.  He was continued on steroids and nebulizers and
antibiotics.  He was also continued to have copious amounts
of sputum and desatted occasionally, but corrected with
suction.  The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction
given some initial T wave changes.  He failed extubation
initially, but was finally extubated on [**2-29**] and has done
well since.  He is transferred to the floor for further
follow up.  He currently has a nonproductive cough and states
that he feels like he has to cough something up.  He was
slightly short of breath and describes a sick feeling, short
of breath after running.  He has no chest pain, palpitations
and no chills.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Emphysema.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Gout.
5.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
6.  Myelodysplasia anemia.
7.  Cerebrovascular accident.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Lisinopril 40 q day.
2.  Atenolol 25 q day.
3.  Procardia 60 q day.
4.  Allopurinol 300.
5.  Aspirin 81 mg.
6.  Lipitor 40 q day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Significant smoking history, 60 pack years.
No significant drinking or intravenous drug use.  He lives ni
[**Hospital3 4298**] with his wife and is retired from the
tobacco industry.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were 97.3, pulse 86, blood
pressure 160/70, respirations 22 and he was satting 95% on 3
liters nasal cannula.  IN general the patient was sitting
upright in the chair with arms first in a tripod and then
over the table.  He was in no acute distress and appeared
somewhat comfortable.  HEENT examination pupils are equal,
round and reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact
bilaterally.  Mucous membranes are moist.  Neck trachea was
midline.  There was no JVD noted.  Pulmonary examination he
had positive wheezes in the middle and upper lobes
bilaterally.  No crackles or rhonchi and he had slight
accessory muscle use as well.  Cardiovascular examination
regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  His
abdominal examination was good bowel sounds, nontender,
nondistended.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  No masses appreciated.
Extremities were warm and well perfuse throughout.  No
clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  He had 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses
and radial pulses bilaterally.  Neurological examination was
no focal deficits.  Cranial nerves intact throughout.

LABORATORY EXAMINATION:  He had a white blood cell count of
19.8, hematocrit 34.3, platelets 359 and an MCV of 102.
Sodium 148, potassium 4.5, chloride 110, bicarb 30, BUN 73,
creatinine 2.2, glucose 107, calcium 9.1, phosphate 4.4,
magnesium 2.4.  His initial electrocardiogram showed a normal
sinus rhythm with right axis deviation and some flattening in
the precordial leads with a possible right bundle branch, but
no acute changes when compared.  Chest x-ray was negative
except for some minor small bilateral pleural effusions.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN:  This is a 77 year-old man with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease flare likely secondary to a
upper respiratory infection or pneumonia.  The patient
continued to do well on the floor, but was satting well on 3
liters nasal cannula.  He was continued on steroids and
switched to Prednisone to be tapered in two to three weeks.
He was continued on his Combivent q 3 to 4 hours prn and his
sats were monitored q 4 to 6 hours.  He was continued on his
O2 cannula for sats to be kept at greater then 90 to 92%.
Given his chest x-ray at the outside hospital there was no
evidence for infiltrate, but we continued Levofloxacin given
plan out to ten days.  Cardiovascular wise he was ruled out
by enzymes times three.  He was already on aspirin and a
beta-blocker, but he was slightly hypertensive when he
arrived to the floor.  We continued to control his blood
pressure with Metoprolol and slowly reintroduced his home
medications as needed to control his blood pressure.  His
renal function continued to improve and his creatinine
dropped from a initial value of 2.2 back to his baseline.  He
was discharged again on his Levofloxacin for two more days to
finish a ten day course and he was continued on his
Prednisone on an outpatient basis to be tapered every three
days as detailed on his discharge summary.  He was continued
on Fluticasone and he desatted with physical therapy prior to
discharge to the high 80s and was felt to benefit from home
O2, so was discharged on 2 to 3 liters home O2.  Physical
therapy felt he would benefit from some physical therapy.  We
called his primary care physician and discussed options for
physical therapy on [**Hospital3 4298**] and she stated that she
would look into either a cardiac physical therapy at his home
hospital or some pulmonary therapy across at [**Location (un) **].  This
instructions to make an appointment with a pulmonologist of
his choice in three to four weeks and to have follow up
pulmonary function tests in one to two months after calming
of his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 2515**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 4517**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4521**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (Prefixes) 55130**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2156-3-8**]  04:05
T:  [**2156-3-9**]  09:42
JOB#:  [**Job Number 55131**]
