Admission Date:  [**2148-4-26**]       Discharge Date:  [**2148-5-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2082-3-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name 1181**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66 year-old
woman with a history of coronary artery disease status post
recent stent to the right coronary artery, oxygen dependent,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypothyroidism
admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for hypotension
requiring pressors.  Four days prior to admission she
noted chills, which progressed to a fever of 101, fatigue and
malaise over the next few days.  One day prior to admission
she had an appointment with her primary care physician who
prescribed [**Name9 (PRE) **] for presumed flare bronchitis.  No increase
in cough or sputum.  She noted sharp pain in her upper back
that radiated to her front and was alleviated with sublingual
nitroglycerin.  That p.m. she noticed worsening chills,
fever, nausea, dry heaves and she went to an outside
hospital.  There she was found to be hypotensive with a blood
pressure of 80/40 and put on a Dopamine drip.  She denies
headache, abdominal pain.  Last bowel movement was yesterday
a.m.  No bright red blood per rectum.  She has a rash on her
back.  Abdominal ultrasound at the outside hospital was
without gallbladder thickening or gallstones.  She has a
history of recent antibiotics with Levofloxacin for chronic
bronchitis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease status
post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and stent
to the right coronary artery in [**2148-3-20**].  No wall motion
abnormalities.  EF of 60%.  Capillary wedge pressure was 14.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which is oxygen
dependent.  Most recent documented pulmonary function tests
are from [**2133**].  3.  Chronic low back pain status post
multiple back surgeries.  4.  Hypothyroidism.  5.  Status
post appendectomy at age 13.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin 325 mg po q day,
Prednisone taper, Cardizem 20 po q day, Plavix 75 q.d.,
Lisinopril 5 q.d., Serevent and Protonix, Levoxyl .75
micrograms po q day, Flovent and Lipitor 20 po q.d.

ALLERGIES:  Erythromycin, Penicillin, and Ceftin.  Question
Ciprofloxacin and codeine.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 97.  Blood
pressure 85/47, which had increased to 127/52.  Pulse 76 to
79.  95% sat on 2 liters.  General, the patient is a pleasant
female lying flat and in no acute distress.  HEENT mucous
membranes are moist.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to
light and accommodation.  Extraocular movements intact.
Pharynx is benign.  Neck has JVP of 4 to 5 cm.  No Carotid
bruits.  No thyromegaly.  No nodules.  Heart S1 and S2,
regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Lungs
decreased breath sounds bilaterally with no rales.  Abdomen
soft, nondistended, tender to deep palpation in the right
upper quadrant.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  Rectal examination
she had hard stool in the vault, no fluctuance, nontender.
Guaiac negative.  Extremities no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.
2+ dorsalis pedis pulses.  Neurological alert and oriented
times three.  Moves all four extremities.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 9.8,
hematocrit 34.  Chem 7 within normal limits.  ALT 149, AST
68, alkaline phosphatase 148, T bili 0.7.  Her coags were
normal.  CK was flat.  Chest x-ray revealed increased lung
volumes, question right cardiophrenic increased opacity.
Electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm.  Normal axis and
intervals normal with small Q waves in 2, 3 and AVF, early R
wave progression, flip T in V1 and V2.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Pulmonary:  She was started on
Levofloxacin for presumed pneumonia and she was diagnosed
with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.  For
that she was continued on inhalers and given stress dose
steroids.  The steroids were quickly tapered and she was
brought to the floor, however, after a few hours on the floor
she again became very short of breath and was transferred
back to the Medical Intensive Care Unit on the [**3-27**].
There she was again placed on stress dosed steroids and
continuous nebulizers, oxygen and did not require intubation.
She was called out to the floor again on [**2148-4-29**] and
started on very gradual Prednisone taper. She is currently on
po Prednisone at 60 mg po q day with plan to taper gradually.
On the floor she also began to have some blood streaked
sputum, which was sent for culture, however, contaminated and
other specimens were being attempted to be sent.  She was
started on Singulair on transfer to the floor and Serevent
and Flovent were readded to her regimen.  Also her outpatient
pulmonary function test results from [**2143**] were obtained and
because of the severity the plan was made for outpatient
pulmonary follow up.

2.  Cardiovascular:  The patient initially was placed on
telemetry and ruled out for myocardial infarction, because of
the hypotension.  She did not receive pressors after
admission since her blood pressure had improved, however, her
blood pressure medications had been held and the Diltiazem
was eventually restarted on transfer to the floor.

3.  Endocrine:  She was continued on her Levoxyl and did not
have any elevated blood glucose on the steroids that she was
on.

4.  Psychiatry:  The patient also had significant anxiety
during this hospital course, which probably contributed to
her shortness of breath and tachycardia.  These improved with
Xanax and Ativan was tried in addition without significant
improvement.  However, frequent Xanax and frequent
reassurance seemed to be the best way to control her anxiety
attacks.

DISPOSITION:  She was evaluated by physical therapy and they
felt she would benefit from a rehabilitation stay.  She was
also seen by social work who dealt with some of her personal
issues with her family.

DISCHARGE PLAN:  Transfer to rehabilitation, progressive
pulmonary rehab, chest physical therapy as needed, suctioning
as needed.  Nebulizers as needed and teaching for inhalers.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg po q day, Prednisone
taper to be outlined on page one.  Cardizem 20 mg po q day.
Lisinopril 5 mg po q day.  Plavix 75 mg po q day.  Serevent
two puffs b.i.d.  Protonix 40 mg po q day.  Levoxyl .75 mg po
q day.  Flovent two puffs b.i.d., Lipitor 20 mg po q day.
Combivent nebulizers q four hours prn.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Bronchitis.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.
3.  Anxiety disorder.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 21189**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 41641**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 6069**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2148-5-1**]  10:42
T:  [**2148-5-1**]  10:53
JOB#:  [**Job Number 41642**]
