Admission Date:  [**2149-11-9**]       Discharge Date: [**2149-11-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2108-1-26**]       Sex:  M

Service:  NEUROLOGY

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Weakness, inability to talk.

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 41-year-old
African-American male with a history of hypertension who was
in his usual state of health until about 10:25 a.m. on the
morning of admission.  He had gone to use the restroom and a
few minutes later his family found him slumped onto the
floor, apparently unable to talk and with weakness in his
right arm and leg.  EMS was called and he was brought into
the Emergency Department at [**Hospital1 18**].

The patient has not had strokes or previous similar symptoms.
He has a history of hypertension but no history of cardiac
symptoms.  The patient was unable to talk for examination and
no family members were present at the bedside and were not at
home (apparently they were on the way to the Emergency Room).
The history was obtained by EMS.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:  The patient was on no medications
upon admission.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives [**Location (un) 6409**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  During the five minute
examination, the patient became progressively less responsive
and then vomited requiring intubation and paralytics during
the examination.  Vital signs:  Blood pressure 229/137, heart
rate 85, respiratory rate 20, temperature 98.8.  General:
This was a well-developed African-American male.  HEENT:  The
neck was supple without lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs,
or gallops noted.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended with no hepatomegaly.
Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema noted.
Neurologic:  On the mental status examination, the patient
was alert but nonverbal.  Language was aphasic but can
comprehend one-step commands.  There was no evidence of
neglect.  The patient can follow one-step commands.  On the
cranial nerve examination, his optic disk margins were sharp.
His extraocular eye movements were intact.  His pupils were
equal and reactive to light.  His face was symmetrical at
rest.  Motor:  He had normal bulk and tone with no tremors.
His power was 0/5 in the right arm and leg.  His left arm and
leg was apparently [**5-5**].  Sensory:  He was reactive to noxious
stimuli in all four extremities.  His reflexes were minimal
throughout.  His toes were mute bilaterally.  Coordination
and gait examination was not tested.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  White count 7.5, hematocrit 45,
platelets 258,000.  PT 12.7, PTT 21.7, INR 1.1.

The EKG was normal sinus rhythm at 99 with normal axis and
intervals.  LVH was noted.  There were T wave inversions in
I, II, III, aVL, V1 through V3.

Serum and urine toxicology was negative.  ESR was 18.  The
urinalysis was negative.  CT scan of the head showed 55 by 55
by 21 mm left putaminal bleed with a 5 mm midline shift to
the right.

Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with CHF.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  NEUROLOGIC:  Left putaminal bleed
secondary to presumed hypertension.  The patient's blood
pressure was initially controlled with a Nipride drip to keep
the cephalic pressure between 130-160.  The Nipride drip was
then weaned as labetalol IV was added along with a
nicardipine drip.  The patient was also given Dilantin load
followed by a maintenance dose of 400 mg q.d.  His level has
been therapeutic around 20.  Considerations for a CTA and
angiogram for possible AVM or aneurysm were considered but
the patient's renal function and health status did not allow
such studies to be done at the current time.

Repeated noncontrast CT of the head revealed no increase in
the bleeding but showed subsequently increases in cerebral
edema with some pressure onto the brain stem.  The patient's
neurological examination did deteriorate to the point that he
only had reactive pupils that were equal and intact corneal
reflexes.  In addition, he had a gag reflex.  However, he
began to not move any extremities and not respond to any
noxious stimuli in the four extremities.

By 4:00 p.m. on [**2149-11-13**], his neurological condition
deteriorated to the point that his pupils were dilated and
nonreactive.  He lost gag and corneal reflex.  Calorics were
done at this time which revealed no response.  Neurosurgery
was reconsulted for a question of craniotomy but they felt
that the patient would not be a candidate for the surgery in
that it would not help him.  Mannitol was then started along
with hyperventilation to keep the PC02 below 30 in an attempt
to decrease the cerebral edema.

Despite clinical examination that the patient is clinically
brain dead, the family wishes to continue aggressive
treatment.  The family requested that the patient be
transferred to the [**Hospital6 1129**].  However,
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 54029**] at the [**Hospital3 **] Stroke Service said
that the patient would not be accepted at the [**Hospital3 **] given that there would be no other intervention that
would be done differently at [**Hospital3 **].

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  As mentioned above, the patient was
initially started on a Nipride drip to control the blood
pressure between 130-160.  However, he was slowly weaned off
the Nipride to be switched over to Cardene drip.  The Cardene
drip was then weaned to allow for the addition of p.o.
Labetalol.  Three serial CKs and troponins were checked and
found to be negative, thus, ruling the patient out for a
myocardial infarction.

3.  PULMONARY:  The patient was initially intubated when
first seen down in the Emergency Room for airway protection
since he vomited.  He then showed a left lower lobe pneumonia
on the chest x-ray.  He was started on levofloxacin and
Flagyl since the day of admission for aspiration pneumonia.
Vancomycin was added on day number four of hospitalization
due to sputum cultures showing Staphylococcus aureus
coagulase-positive organisms and gram-negative rods.
Susceptibilities are still pending.  The patient did have one
or two episodes of desaturation secondary to breathing trials
and increased secretion in his nostrils.  In an attempt to
decongest him, saline nasal spray was started.

4.  RENAL:  Acute renal failure secondary to dehydration.
The patient's creatinine upon admission was 1.4 and continued
to rise to 2 as he started third spacing his fluids.  Urine
electrolytes were checked which showed a phena of less than 1
which is evidence of the patient being dehydrated and
prerenal.  He was subsequently given IV fluids and his
creatinine improved to 1.6.  A renal ultrasound was done
which showed no evidence of hydronephrosis.

5.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  Leukocytosis:  Given the aspiration
pneumonia and elevated white count of 18.6, levofloxacin and
Flagyl were started on the day of admission.  Blood cultures
were obtained.  The first two sets showed one out of four
blood cultures that grew staphylococcus coagulase-negative.
Since this was deemed a contaminent, no further antibiotics
were given.  However, on day number four of hospitalization,
his sputum culture returned showing Staphylococcus
coagulase-positive organisms so vancomycin was added.  More
blood cultures were drawn but nothing has grown to date.

6.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient was given and orogastric
tube for tube feeds.  He had some high residuals so the tube
feeds were stopped.  Reglan was then administered to promote
GI motility so that the tube feeds could be restarted.

7. FLUIDS, ELECTROLYTES, AND NUTRITION:  Hyponatremia:  The
patient's sodium slowly fell from 136 upon admission to 130
on the fourth day of hospitalization.  It was felt that this
was due to salt wasting from his cerebral problems so he was
then fluid restricted.  Although he has acute renal failure
secondary to dehydration and third spacing, it was felt that
he needed to be fluid restricted given that the overall
hyponatremia was more likely due to salt wasting.




                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**First Name8 (NamePatter