Admission Date:  [**2146-11-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2146-11-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2077-6-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 69-year-old
woman with a past medical history of hypertension, congestive
heart failure, type 2 diabetes, and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, and past Q wave myocardial infarction who
presented with a 1-week history of progressive shortness of
breath culminating in respiratory failure after presentation
to the Emergency Department at the [**Hospital1 190**].

The patient presented from [**Hospital **] Nursing Home secondary to
acute exacerbation of her worsening shortness of breath and
cough.  She was aggressively treated in the Emergency
Department with 80 mg of intravenously Lasix, and two
Combivent nebulizers, along with three sublingual
nitroglycerin tablets, and noninvasive BiPAP ventilation via
face mask with 50% FIO2.  Despite these interventions, the
patient's oxygen saturations dropped to 70% to 80% in the
Emergency Department and then even to the 50% when the
patient was intubated during a difficult intubation.

Per report from the nursing home and the patient's family,
the patient had experienced no fevers, chills, or sweats
prior to admission.  No nausea, or vomiting, or urinary
symptoms prior to presentation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past Medical History includes)
1.  Congestive heart failure.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
3.  Type 2 diabetes.
4.  Schizophrenia.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Q wave myocardial infarction.

Please note, the patient has been seen several times
previously at [**Hospital6 **], and her complete medical
record can be found there.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
 2.  Diltiazem 360 mg p.o. q.d.
 3.  Diamox 250 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 4.  Lasix 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 5.  Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d.
 6.  Imdur 30 mg p.o. q.d.
 7.  Glipizide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 8.  Prednisolone eyedrops q.i.d.
 9.  Metformin 500 mg p.o. q.d.
10.  Azmacort b.i.d.
11.  Colace.
12.  Combivent.
13.  A regular insulin sliding-scale.
14.  Zoloft 25 mg p.o. q.d.
15.  Zyprexa 10 mg p.o. q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
upon admission revealed vital signs with a temperature of
98.6, blood pressure was 128/42, and pulse was 67.  The
patient was saturating 88% on a 100% nonrebreather in the
Emergency Department.  By the time she was examined by me,
the patient was intubated on the ventilator which was set on
assist control 20 X 480 with 100% FIO2 and a positive
end-expiratory pressure of 5.  Generally, the patient was
intubated and sedated but was somewhat responsive and was
unable to follow commands; although, she was noted to be able
to follow commands prior to intubation, and was thought to
only be oriented times person (per her daughter's report).
Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed
pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.  The patient
had cataracts bilaterally.  The oropharynx was clear with a
large protuberant tongue.  Mucous membranes were moist.  The
neck was supple and large without lymphadenopathy.  Jugular
venous pressure was not present, but difficult to interpret
due the patient's neck girth.  Cardiovascular examination
revealed the patient had a regular rate, with a 2/6 systolic
murmur best heard at the left upper sternal border, and soft
heart sounds.  Lung examination revealed bibasilar crackles
at the bases with bronchial breath sounds at the basis as
well, and poor air movement bilaterally.  The abdomen
revealed an obese and distended abdomen; although, this was
status post initial esophageal intubation.  The patient had
hypoactive bowel sounds.  No obvious tenderness.  No
organomegaly.  Her extremities revealed 2+ pitting edema
bilaterally in the lower extremities and 1+ dorsalis pedis
pulses, posterior tibialis, and radial pulses bilaterally.
Neurologically, cranial nerves II through XII were intact
bilaterally with 1+ deep tendon reflexes in her upper and
lower extremities bilaterally.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory
results on admission revealed white blood cell count was 7.8,
hemoglobin was 8.7, hematocrit was 30.7, platelets were 194,
and mean cell volume was 77, and RDW was 176 (differential
with 80% neutrophils, 2% bands, 7% lymphocytes, 11%
monocytes).  PT was 13.4, INR was 1.2, PTT was 31.2.
Chemistry-7 revealed sodium was 124, potassium was 4.2,
chloride was 87, bicarbonate was 30, blood urea nitrogen was
11, creatinine was 0l8, and blood glucose was 141.  Creatine
kinase was 138.  MB fraction was 3.  Troponin was less than
0.3.  Urinalysis was negative with no red blood cells, 3 to 5
white blood cells, greater than 50 epithelial cells.
Leukocyte esterase negative.  Negative for nitrites.
Admission blood gas revealed pH was 7.23, PCO2 was 84, and
PO2 was 71 on 50% FIO2 by BiPAP.  After being ventilated on
assist control, the patient had a pH of 7.43, bicarbonate of
45, and PO2 was 160 on 100%.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   A chest x-ray revealed congestive heart
failure without hyperexpansion.

Electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm with a normal
axis.  A wide QRS with a right bundle-branch block pattern
and left atrial enlargement.  QTc was 450 milliseconds and
was slightly elongated.  No ST changes or T wave inversions
consistent with ischemia.  The patient had an inferior Q wave
pattern suggestive of prior inferior myocardial infarction.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:

1.  RESPIRATORY FAILURE:  The patient was aggressively
diuresed during the first several days of her hospital
course.  The patient was diuresed negative five liters with
improvement of her chest x-ray, improvement of her E to A
gradient, and improvement of her oxygenation.

The patient was able to oxygenate appropriately with minimal
FIO2 and positive end-expiratory pressure requirements on the
ventilator; however, she was unable to wean off the
ventilator due to her high pressure support requirement after
being changed from assist-control ventilation to pressure
support ventilation.  The patient could not be weaned below
18 mmHg of pressure support despite multiple attempts.

It was thought that the patient had a respiratory muscle
weakness that could be either muscular or neurological in
etiology.  The patient had a normal thyroid-stimulating
hormone and had been receiving steroids intravenously for a
supposed chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation
during this admission.

The patient initially received stress-dose steroids which
were quickly weaned down; however, the patient had still been
on steroids when she was evaluated for respiratory muscle
weakness, and it was thought as semicrisis was an unlikely
cause, whereas hypothyroidism or neuroleptic malignant
syndrome were considered as well.  However, her creatine
kinase was normal and thyroid-stimulating hormone was within
normal limits.

The patient was thought to have a hypoventilation syndrome,
and it was thought that she was a general SpO2 retainer at
baseline; therefore, an extubation trial was attempted on
[**2146-11-27**]; which the patient was unable to tolerate
due to hypoventilation to the point that her pH dropped to
7.2.  The patient was reintubated, and a tracheostomy was
placed on [**2146-11-29**] along with a percutaneous
endoscopically placed gastric tube (which was placed on the
same day) for feedings.

Further workup of the patient's hypoventilation syndrome;
which could be a result of her obesity but could be related
to multiple other medical problems such as myasthenia [**Last Name (un) 2902**],
multiple sclerosis, amyloidosis, systemic sclerosis, etcetera
could be worked up when the patient is able to be weaned off
the ventilator.  However, at this point, the patient was
unable to be weaned and was therefore to be transferred to an
extended care facility for long-term weaning.

The patient was also empirically treated for chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation as discussed above
with an intravenous Solu-Medrol taper and fluoroquinolone
antibiotics; specifically, ciprofloxacin.  Additionally, the
patient received scheduled albuterol and ipratropium
n