Admission Date:  [**2117-2-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2117-2-18**]


Service:  Coronary Care Unit

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86 yaer old
man with a history of coronary artery disease, congestive
heart failure and diastolic dysfunction, who had been doing
well until two to three weeks prior to admission, when he and
his family noticed increased malaise, orthopnea and shortness
of breath. The patient's cardiologist, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], advised
admission for Swan-Ganz catheterization and medication
titration on [**2117-2-5**], but the patient refused at that
time.

The weekend prior to admission, the patient became
increasingly short of breath with nausea and dry heaves.  He
denied fevers, chills, cough, abdominal pain or chest pain.
He was initially admitted to the C-Medicine service for
management of congestive heart failure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.  Atrial
fibrillation.  3.  Status post left hip replacement.  4.
Status post hernia repair.  5.  Cataracts.  6.  Right heel
ulcer.  7.  Coronary artery disease, status post inferior
myocardial infarction.  8.  Chronic renal insufficiency with
a baseline creatinine of 2.

ALLERGIES:  Captopril (rash).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Isordil 10 mg p.o.t.i.d., Lasix 40
mg p.o.b.i.d., amiodarone 200 mg p.o.q.d., enteric coated
aspirin 325 mg p.o.q.d., hydralazine 20 mg p.o.q.i.d.,
Levoxyl 100 mcg p.o.q.d., digoxin 0.125 mg p.o.q.o.d.,
Coumadin 2 mg p.o.q.o.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a 30 pack year tobacco
history and denies alcohol use.  He is originally from [**Country 3399**]
and is a retired accountant.  He lives with his wife.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's mother had type 2 diabetes
mellitus as well as a myocardial infarction late in life.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, the patient
was afebrile with a heart rate of 66, respiratory rate 16,
blood pressure 140/70 and oxygen saturation 94% in room air.
General:  Alert, elderly gentleman in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Normocephalic,
atraumatic, pupils equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation, oral mucosa dry, jugular venous pressure 10
cm.  Pulmonary:  Crackles at left apex and right base.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rhythm, normal S1 and S2, positive
S3, no murmurs or rubs.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended, positive bowel sounds, hepatomegaly with the
lower edge of the liver palpable 3 cm below the right costal
margin.  Extremities:  Peripheral pulses 2+, no cyanosis,
clubbing or edema.  Neurologic examination:  Alert and
oriented times three.

LABORATORY DATA:  Initial laboratory studies were remarkable
for a hematocrit of 27, normal white blood cell count, INR
1.9, BUN 58 and creatinine 2.6.  Digoxin level was 0.7.
Chest x-ray indicated an enlarged heart shadow, right sided
pleural effusion, right lower lobe atelectasis and a slight
upper redistribution of pulmonary vasculature.
Electrocardiogram indicated normal sinus rhythm with a rate
of 66 beats per minute, normal axis and intervals, and
repolarization abnormality in leads V2 through V3.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially admitted to the
C-Medicine service for management of congestive heart
failure.  An echocardiogram indicated a left ventricular
ejection fraction of less than 20%.  The left atrium was
moderately dilated as was the right ventricle.  There was
apical and septal akinesis, otherwise, global hypokinesis, 2+
mitral regurgitation and 3+ tricuspid regurgitation.

The patient was given a total of 100 mg of intravenous Lasix
on the floor, with poor diuresis, and was transferred to the
Coronary Care Unit for monitoring of right sided filling
pressures.  Initial Swan-Ganz parameters indicated a
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 31 and cardiac index of
2.9.  The patient was continued on intravenous Lasix in order
to bring his wedge pressure down to a low of the high teens
and was started on a dobutamine drip to improve his cardiac
index.

Good diuresis was achieved with intravenous Lasix.  The
patient was also started on Captopril and weaned off the
dobutamine drip.  On hospital day number three, the patient
became tachycardiac with a rate in the 120s and hypotensive,
with a blood pressure in the 70s, also experiencing
concomitant nausea and vomiting.  He was transiently placed
on a Dopamine drip for blood pressure support, however, this
was quickly weaned.

Although there were no electrocardiographic changes on the
morning of this event, the patient did rule in for a
myocardial infarction just following this event, with a CK of
287, MB index 14.9 and troponin of 49.  At this point, the
patient was started on a heparin drip and his Coumadin and
ACE inhibitor were held.

The patient then experienced a second episode of nausea and
vomiting, this time associated with worsening ST depression
in the lateral precordial leads. These electrocardiographic
changes resolved as the symptoms improved and his cardiac
enzymes continued to trend down. The patient's wedge pressure
remained at a goal level of the high teens and his cardiac
index remained at a goal level of approximately 2.5 to 3.

The Swan-Ganz catheter was therefore discontinued and the
patient was transferred to the floor, where he was maintained
on his heparin drip and restarted on Coumadin.  The patient
had been seen by physical therapy and cleared for a safe
discharge home, and was to go home on the morning of hospital
day number ten.

On the evening of hospital day number nine, however, the
patient started to complain of diffuse abdominal pain.  A
repeat hematocrit drawn at that time indicated a level of
23.9.  The patient was transfused one unit of packed red
blood cells.  The following morning, the patient had been
examined by the nursing staff at 6:30 a.m. and was doing
well.

At approximately 7:00 a.m., however, the patient was noted to
be unresponsive and ashen appearing with a systolic blood
pressure in the 80 and an oxygen saturation that was not
recordable.  A code was called and the code team responded.
At that time, the patient was in intermittent atrial
fibrillation with a heart rate in the 60s and an increased
respiratory rate.

The patient was intubated for respiratory failure and
transferred back to the Coronary Care Unit, where he was
started on phenylephrine, Dopamine and epinephrine drips for
blood pressure support.  Stat laboratory work indicated a
hematocrit of 21.4, INR 2.3, partial thromboplastin time 119,
CK 94, arterial blood gases of 7.02, 44 and 32 prior to
intubation, with 7.01, 24 and 18 following intubation.  His
lactate level was found to be elevated at 12.  An arterial
line was placed in the left groin and the patient was
transfused an additional unit of packed red blood cells and
given intravenous bicarbonate.

On examination at that time, the patient's chest was clear
anteriorly.  The abdomen was distended.  An abdominal x-ray
indicated no obstruction, with moderate gaseous distention of
the stomach.  A chest x-ray indicated no new infiltrates and
worsening left lower lobe atelectasis.  An electrocardiogram
indicated no new ischemic changes.  It was thought that the
patient had perhaps had a gastrointestinal bleed while on the
floor, with subsequent hypoperfusion causing mesenteric
ischemia.

The patient's family was notified and met with the medical
team, at which point, they were informed that the patient had
an exceedingly poor prognosis and was not likely to recover.
The decision was made at that point to make the patient "Do
Not Resuscitate" but to continue full medical support until
the patient's third son arrived from out of town, which he
did that evening at approximately 10:00 p.m.

At that time, given that there was no improvement in the
patient's condition, it was decided to withdraw support.  The
patient subsequently expired at 4:30 a.m. on [**2117-2-18**].  The family was present at the time and did not request
an autopsy.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Congestive heart failure.
2.  Coronary artery disease.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  ?Gastrointestinal bleed.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Expired.





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 