Admission Date:  [**2138-6-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2138-6-27**]


Service:  [**Hospital1 139**] Medicine

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 79-year-old female with
coronary artery disease status post CABG x4, status post
multiple percutaneous interventions, admitted to outside
hospital on [**6-12**] with epigastric tenderness relieved by
nitroglycerin.  She ruled out for a myocardial infarction by
enzymes and was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for cardiac catheterization on [**6-13**].

In the catheterization laboratory, she was noted to have
multiple vessel disease with three potential culprits, poorly
amenable to percutaneous intervention.  Her catheterization
was complicated by an acute anterior wall myocardial
infarction, cardiogenic shock, atrial fibrillation requiring
emergent intubation, pressors, intra-aortic balloon pump.
She continued to be in cardiogenic shock and have unstable
angina.

Her initial catheterization was noted to have no reflow down
the LIMA, saphenous vein graft to OM-1 was 60% occluded to
the OM-2.  No intervention was made because the patient was
too unstable.  Upon stabilization of her condition, she had
recurrent unstable angina, which prompted a relook
catheterization and percutaneous intervention with stenting
of the saphenous vein graft to OM-2 jump segment.

Despite this intervention, she had ongoing chest pain with [**Street Address(2) 94587**] depressions.  She was continued to be volume overloaded
and frank congestive heart failure.  Her rhythm was
tachy-brady throughout her CCU admission.  She has known His
disease.  Her CCU course was also notable for temperature
spikes to 101.2 without identifiable source.  She
furthermore, was noted to have a rapidly increasing white
blood cell count in the 40s-50s range.  Workup ensued
subsequently with an abdominal CT scan that was revealing and
Hematology/Oncology consultation was ensuing.

The patient was transferred to the floor for further
management as there was no further cardiac interventions that
were going to take place.  The patient did not wish to have a
cardiac catheterization repeat nor to have a permanent
pacemaker placed.  On concert after multiple family meetings
and discussions with the patient, her condition remained
tenuous.  She had ongoing congestive heart failure and an
unexplained leukocytosis.  Her floor course was complicated
by further unstable angina.

In concert with her family and  the patient, it was decided
to withdraw care at this point, and not pursue further
aggressive medical measures.  Patient was changed in code
status to comfort measures only.  She was started on Morphine
drip.  The patient expired on [**2138-6-27**] at 12:25 pm.  The
patient's family was aware.  Patient's family refused autopsy
on her behalf.




                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 2506**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 95087**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2138-6-27**]  12:46
T:  [**2138-6-30**]  11:22
JOB#:  [**Job Number 95088**]
