Admission Date:  [**2146-10-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2146-10-20**]

Date of Birth:   [**2080-5-6**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Location (un) **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
gentleman is status post renal transplant in [**2146-5-31**] and
a biopsy in [**2146-7-1**] which was initially complicated by
delayed graft function and then by arteriovenous fistula
formation and rejection in [**Month (only) 216**].  The patient also with a
history of coronary artery disease and congestive heart
failure (with an ejection fraction of 30% to 40%).  The
patient presented with a 2-month history of dry cough,
listlessness, a 2-week history of increased glucose values,
worsening cough, and increased peripheral edema,
incontinence, and tremors.

The patient with worsening in the last 24 hours to 48 hours
prior to admission with a fever to 101 degrees Fahrenheit,
increased shortness of breath, and increased dyspnea on
exertion.  His cough was nonproductive.  He did have some
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and some orthopnea.

In the Emergency Department, the patient received
ceftriaxone, azithromycin, metoprolol, aspirin, amiodarone,
regular insulin NPH, nitroglycerin drip, and pentamidine.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Review of systems was positive for a dry
weight of 208.  His appetite was okay.  Fever for the past
two days.  No chest pain.  No angina.  No nausea.  No
vomiting.  No diarrhea.  Occasional constipation.  Occlusion
orthopnea.  Mild paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  Intermittent
edema.  No melena.  No bright red blood per rectum.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post cadaveric renal transplant in [**2146-5-31**]
complicated by delayed function.  The patient had a biopsy in
[**2146-7-1**] which showed chronic rejection and was
complicated by an arteriovenous fistula.
2.  End-stage renal disease secondary to autoimmune
glomerulonephritis.
3.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction times two and status post coronary artery bypass
graft with patent grafts as of [**2144-5-1**].
4.  Congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of
30% to 35%).
5.  History of atrial flutter; status post ablation in [**2143-5-2**] with recurrent atrial fibrillation.
6.  History of Nocardia (pulmonary) two years ago while on
high-dose prednisone.
7.  History of bladder cancer in [**2136**]; status post treatment.
8.  History of deep venous thrombosis in his right internal
jugular after a line complication.

ALLERGIES:  Allergies include BACTRIM, PRAVACHOL, MEVACOR,
and VANCOMYCIN.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications on admission were
Neoral, prednisone, Rapamune, Neurontin, Prilosec, Colace,
metoprolol, Lipitor, aspirin, amiodarone, digoxin, Avandia,
insulin (regular and NPH), and inhaled pentamidine monthly
treatments.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient worked previously at [**Company 2676**]
and is in early retirement.  He lives with his wife, and
daughter, and grandmother.  They have one cat at home.
Positive history of tobacco, but he quit 25 years ago.  No
alcohol.  No other drugs.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history includes mother with
diabetes.  Father with a myocardial infarction at the age of
56 and obesity.  A brother who died at the age of 48 of
cholesterol emboli.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Physical examination
on admission revealed the patient's temperature was 102.7
degrees Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 101, his blood
pressure was 123/65, his respiratory rate was 33, and his
oxygen saturation was 99% on 4 liters via nasal cannula and
requiring 6 liters via nasal cannula.  In general, the
patient was a middle-aged gentleman lying in bed.  He was
speaking in short sentences.  In no acute distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed
normocephalic and atraumatic.  Pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles were intact.  The
oropharynx with some thrush.  No erythema.  The neck was
supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  No bruits.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed heart was irregularly irregular.  Normal
first heart sounds and second heart sounds.  Pulmonary
examination with positive rhonchi and significant upper
airway nose.  No wheezes.  Adequate air movement.  The
abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Positive
bowel sounds.  Extremity examination revealed 2+ edema to the
knees with chronic venous stasis changes (right greater than
left)).  Neurologic examination revealed the patient was
alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves were intact.
Strength and sensation were intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
on admission revealed the patient's white blood cell count
was 5.5, his hematocrit was 25.3, and his platelets were 374.
His Chemistry-7 revealed sodium was 132, potassium was 4.8,
chloride was 97, bicarbonate was 19, blood urea nitrogen was
58, creatinine was 3.8, and blood glucose was 341.  His
calcium was 8.6, his magnesium was 1.7, and his phosphorous
was 3.4.  Lactate dehydrogenase was 933.  The rest of the
liver function tests were normal.  Troponin on admission was
0.13, creatine kinase was 687, and MB was 3.  His amylase was
118.  Urinalysis with a specific gravity of 1015, large
blood, 100 glucose, and trace ketones.  Blood cultures and
urine cultures were pending on admission.  A sputum culture
was also sent.  Arterial blood gas on 6 liters of nasal
cannula revealed a pH of 7.45, a PCO2 of 26, and a PO2 of 74.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray with increased
cardiac size, prominent vasculature, bilateral lung opacity
blunting, small left pleural effusion.

Electrocardiogram with atrial fibrillation with a rapid
ventricular response and wide QRS.  Significant change from
[**2146-7-1**].

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient is a 66-year-old immunosuppressed gentleman status
post transplant who presented with fever, cough, and hypoxia
with multiple medical problems including congestive heart
failure, chronic renal insufficiency, and atrial fibrillation
(with rapid ventricular response) who subacutely
decompensated likely due to infection versus cardiac causes.

The patient was initially admitted to the Intensive Care Unit
for further monitoring and further workup.

1.  HYPOXIA ISSUES:  Initially, the patient was treated
aggressively with antibiotics and pentamidine for broad
coverage and tolerated this well.

Eventually, the patient had a bronchoscopy in the Intensive
Care Unit.  Many studies were sent including Pneumocystis
carinii pneumonia, bronchial cultures, viral studies which
all remained negative.  No source was found per bronchoscopy.

Initially, the patient was continued on pentamidine treatment
until preliminary Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia came back
negative.  Pentamidine was discontinued; however, the patient
spiked a temperature again while on ceftriaxone and Zithromax
and was restarted on pentamidine.  The patient completed a
7-day course of ceftriaxone and azithromycin which was then
discontinued.

Initially, in the Intensive Care Unit when he patient was
being treated for empiric Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, the
patient was also started on high-dose prednisone. As the
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia initially came back negative,
the high-dose prednisone was then discontinued and the
patient remained on his previous home dose of prednisone.
The patient was also diuresed during the course of his
Medical Intensive Care Unit stay, to which he responded with
increased urine output.  In addition, his creatinine started
to rise; unsure if this was secondary to his pentamidine
treatment or further diuresis.  Diuresis was held when the
patient was transferred to the floor and continued to be
monitored for fluid overload.

As the patient became slightly more symptomatic on
examination, with evidence of bilateral mild pulmonary edema,
the patient was diuresed again on an as-needed basis.

Eventually, pentamidine was restarted and then discontinued
prior to discharge secondary to no evidence of Pneumocystis
carinii pneumonia and a rise in creatinine likely secondary
to nephrotoxicity from the pentamidine.  The patient remained
afebrile off the pentami