Admission Date:  [**2109-3-15**]     Discharge Date:  [**2109-3-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2051-3-22**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient was admitted with a chief
complaint of chest pain and acute anterior myocardial
infarction.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 57-year-old
male with coronary artery disease, status post percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty of his right coronary
artery in [**2102**], who had exertional chest pain in [**2108-7-1**]
with an exercise MIBI showing reversible apical defect.  The
patient then proceeded to catheterization which showed a 99%
middle left anterior descending artery stenosis which was
treated with a SIRIUS stent.  The left main was normal, and
there were no other significant lesions.  An ejection
fraction at that time was 55%.

The patient has been chest pain free until the day of
admission ([**2109-3-15**]) when he experienced pain in his
middle chest radiating to his right arm for 10 minutes.  The
patient experienced two more episodes in the afternoon, and
the patient went to his doctor's office where an
electrocardiogram was done that showed anterior ST
elevations.  The patient was given sublingual nitroglycerin
times two with some relief of the pain, but it returned.

The patient was sent to the [**Hospital 1474**] Hospital Emergency Room
where he was started on a 2B3A inhibitor, heparin,
nitroglycerin and was given Lopressor and morphine.  He was
transferred to the [**Hospital1 69**] for
further treatment.

Upon arrival at [**Hospital1 69**], the
patient proceeded quickly to the cardiac catheterization
laboratory which showed a right-dominant system, a normal
left main, and a 100% occlusion proximal to the previous left
anterior descending artery stent with a thrombus.  This
lesion was stented with a Hepakote stent; which, after
deployment, showed 0 residual blockage.  There was 30%
disease between the two stents; one deployed now and one
deployed in [**2108-7-1**].  His right coronary artery was
totally occluded.  This was also seen on his catheterization
in [**Month (only) 205**], and the patient had mild left circumflex disease.
Pressures included a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of
32, a cardiac output of 5.21, and a pulmonary artery
saturation of 78%.  The patient was started on Integrilin,
nitroglycerin drip, and Plavix, and transferred to the
Coronary Care Unit for further care.

On arrival to the Coronary Care Unit the patient was chest
pain free.  He denied any shortness of breath, palpitations,
or dizziness.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease (see History of Present Illness).
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Spondylolisthesis.
5.  Degenerative joint disease of the lumbar spine.
6.  Status post total hip replacement times two.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to ZESTRIL (he has a
cough).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications as an outpatient
included aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Cozaar 50 mg p.o. q.d.,
atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d., Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.d.,
Meridia 15 mg p.o. q.d., Percocet and Motrin as needed for
back pain, isosorbide 60 mg p.o. q.d., Tylenol 500 mg p.o.
p.r.n. for back pain.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient has an uncle and a cousin with
coronary artery disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] denies
any tobacco use.  He occasionally consumes alcohol.  He works
in an automobile supply store.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   On arrival to the
Coronary Care Unit physical examination revealed in general,
the patient was an obese man in no acute distress.  Vital
signs revealed a temperature of 96.1, blood pressure of
153/95, heart rate of 82, respiratory rate of 16, oxygen
saturation of 97% on room air, weight of 140 kg.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat examination revealed normocephalic and
atraumatic.  Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements were intact, anicteric.  Neck
examination was supple without any jugular venous distention.
Chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally without any
wheezes.  Heart had a regular rate and rhythm.  First heart
sound and second heart sound were normal.  There was an third
heart sound.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended,
normal bowel sounds.  Genitourinary examination showed a
right groin with a blue Swan-Ganz in place.  There was no
hematoma.  Extremities revealed trace edema bilaterally.
Dorsalis pedis pulses were 2+ bilaterally.  Neurologically,
alert and oriented times three; examination was nonfocal.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory data
revealed a white blood cell count of 11.2, hematocrit
of 44.2, platelets of 219.  SMA-7 revealed sodium of 142,
potassium of 4.3, chloride of 103, bicarbonate of 25, blood
urea nitrogen of 17, creatinine of 0.9, glucose of 176.
Creatine kinase of 1095.  Calcium of 9.2, phosphate of 4.6,
magnesium of 1.9.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram at 3:45 p.m. on the day
of admission showed a normal sinus rhythm at 90, normal axis,
normal intervals, 3-mm to 4-mm ST elevations in V1 through V4
with small Q waves in II, III, and aVF.  No T wave
inversions, good R wave progression.

Electrocardiogram at 7 p.m., post procedure, showed normal
sinus rhythm at 81, normal axis, normal intervals.  A 1-mm to
2-mm ST elevations in V1 through V4, no T wave inversions.
No left ventricular hypertrophy by criteria, with good R wave
progression.

Chest x-ray done in the Emergency Room showed congestive
heart failure, but no cardiomegaly.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  This is a 57-year-old male with a
history of coronary artery disease, status post left anterior
descending artery stent in [**2108-7-1**], who had chest pain
on the day of admission with ST elevations anteriorly.

The patient went to the catheterization laboratory which
showed a proximal left anterior descending artery lesion of
100%.  This lesion was stented.  The patient had elevated
filling pressures at the time of catheterization.  The
patient was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit with a
Swan-Ganz catheter in place for further monitoring.

The patient was to be continued on Integrilin, aspirin, and
Plavix.  Daily electrocardiograms will be obtained.  Creatine
kinases will be cycled until peaking.  The atenolol and
Cozaar will be continued at their current doses.  These will
be increased as tolerated to maximize blood pressure and
heart rate control.  Zocor will be changed to Lipitor 10 mg
p.o. q.d.  The patient will be put in for an echocardiogram
to assess wall motion abnormalities and ejection fraction.
The patient will be given 40 mg of Lasix times one now; and
then as needed to manage congestive heart failure.

From a renal standpoint, the patient's electrolytes and
creatinine will be followed post catheterization.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On hospital day two, the patient's
Lopressor was increased to 75 mg p.o. b.i.d.  The patient was
given Lasix times one.  The patient's Cozaar was increased in
the evening to 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. from 50 mg p.o. q.d.   The
patient's Swan-Ganz catheter was discontinued.  The patient's
Integrilin was discontinued after 18 hours.  At that time,
heparin was started for anticoagulation.  The patient had an
anterior myocardial infarction.  There was concern for apical
akinesis, and the patient will be anticoagulated until a
transthoracic echocardiogram is obtained to evaluate apical
wall motion.

On hospital day three, the patient continued to do well.  The
patient had some runs of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia
overnight, but was within 48 hours of his acute myocardial
infarction.  The patient's beta blocker was increased to
100 mg of Lopressor b.i.d.  That was the only change in the
patient's medication regimen.

On hospital day four, the patient received a transthoracic
echocardiogram that showed akinesis of the apex; anterior
apex, septal apex, inferior apex, and lateral apex with a
projected ejection fraction of 30% to 39%.  Given this, the
patient required anticoagulation for three months.  The
patient was started on Coumadin and will receive one dose.
The patient will be discharged on Coumadin and followed by
his cardiologist.  Du