Admission Date:  [**2120-12-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2120-12-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2053-11-23**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath and hypoxia after
aspiration.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
woman with a recurrent admission after elective clipping for
an anterior communicating artery and posterior communicating
artery on [**2120-10-30**].  The procedure was performed
without complications, but on postoperative day one she was
found to be less responsive with upper extremity weakness on
the right.  Angiography revealed vasospasm of her left middle
cerebral artery with an magnetic resonance imaging on
[**11-8**] showing a small left frontal infarct.  She was
also noted to have a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction by
enzymes during this hospitalization.

On [**11-7**] the patient became febrile, and blood cultures
grew gram-positive cocci.  Staphylococcus was identified in
the cerebrospinal fluid, and the patient was started on a
6-week course of oxacillin.  She also had a Klebsiella
pneumonia and a methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus
left subclavian line infection.

On [**11-12**] she was noted to have drainage from her scalp
incision and a subgaleal abscess was drained from that site
in the operating room.  The patient was extubated on
[**11-21**] but required an nasogastric tube for feeding.
She was discharged to rehabilitation on [**2120-11-29**] with
the nasogastric tube.

On [**2120-12-1**], the patient pulled out her nasogastric
tube partially during these tube feeds.  When she was found
after having done this she was noted to have an oxygen
saturation in the 60s.  After aggressive suctioning her
oxygen saturation increased to the 90s, and she was
subsequently transferred to the [**Hospital1 188**] for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes.
2.  Coronary artery disease, status post myocardial
infarction on [**2120-7-24**] and a postoperative myocardial
infarction in [**2120-10-24**].
3.  Postoperative atrial fibrillation, status post
cardioversion.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Hyperlipidemia.
6.  Cervical cancer.
7.  Posterior communicating artery and anterior communicating
artery aneurysms, status post clipping as described in the
History of Present Illness.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:
 1.  Dilantin 200 mg p.o. t.i.d.
 2.  Epogen 40,000 units every week.
 3.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Magnesium oxide 800 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 5.  Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 6.  Oxacillin 2 g intravenously q.6h.
 7.  Vancomycin 1 g intravenously q.12h.
 8.  Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d.
 9.  Lopressor 150 mg p.o. t.i.d.
10.  Captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.
11.  Prevacid 30 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has one daughter.  She denies
alcohol or tobacco use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Her vital signs on
admission were temperature of 100.2, pulse of 100, blood
pressure of 128/54, and she was intubated in the Emergency
Department for airway protection.  Her pupils were equal,
round, and reactive to light.  The oropharynx was without
lesions.  She had diffuse coarse breath sounds.  Her heart
was tachycardic but regular.  No notable murmurs.  Her
abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  She had no
lower extremity edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell
count 9.4, hematocrit 35.3, platelets 269.  Sodium 141,
potassium 3.8, chloride 125, bicarbonate 28, blood urea
nitrogen 21, creatinine 1.3, glucose 299.  First creatine
kinase was 47, troponin of less than 0.3.  Calcium 8.6,
phosphate 4, magnesium 2.1.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Her chest x-ray showed diffuse bilateral
infiltrates, right greater than left, consistent with
multilobar pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In the Emergency Department the patient was
persistently hypoxic requiring intubation.  The patient was
subsequently admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
further care.  She was initially hypotensive requiring
pressor support.  She was rapidly weaned off dopamine and
extubated on [**2120-12-3**].

On [**2120-12-4**], she was transferred to the floor for
further management but went into flash pulmonary edema on
[**2120-12-5**] requiring readmission to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  She was again stabilized and
transferred to the floor on [**2120-12-8**], where she
recovered well and was discharged to rehabilitation on
[**2120-12-13**].

1.  PULMONARY:  The patient was initially admitted to the
hospital in acute respiratory distress syndrome secondary to
aspiration of tube feeds.  As it was unclear if this
represented an aspiration pneumonia or pneumonitis,
antibiotic therapy with levofloxacin and Flagyl was
initiated.  The patient was extubated on [**2120-12-3**].
After cultures, sputum, and chest x-ray did not show evidence
of infection the levofloxacin and Flagyl were stopped on
[**2120-12-4**] with good results.

The patient's respiratory status continued to improve until
[**2120-12-5**] when the patient was found to be
hypertensive to 200/100, tachycardic to 120, with oxygen
saturation in the 80s on 4 liters nasal cannula.  An arterial
blood gas at the time was pH of 7.29, PCO2 of 56, PO2 of 41.
Chest x-ray showed diffuse infiltrates consistent with
congestive heart failure or aspiration.  The patient
responded well to 80 mg intravenous Lasix, and her oxygen
saturation increased to 96% on 100% nonrebreather with an
arterial blood gas of 7.31/51/81.

Since the patient had a known upper extremity deep venous
thrombosis, a CT angiogram was also performed which did not
show evidence of pulmonary embolism, and the patient was
transferred back to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
further management.  She subsequently recovered well in the
Medical Intensive Care Unit and was stable to be transferred
back to the floor.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient had a non-Q-wave myocardial
infarction by enzymes on [**2120-8-2**], with positive
troponin but negative MB fraction.  On [**2120-12-5**], it
was believed that the patient went into flash pulmonary edema
for unclear reasons.  She responded well to intravenous Lasix
with a urine output of approximately 400 cc over the first
half hour and respiratory distress.  She had no
electrocardiogram changes at that time and was ruled out by
serial enzymes.

She was transferred to the unit for further management.
During this episode an echocardiogram evaluation of her heart
showed that she had an ejection fraction of 40% to 45% with
2+ tricuspid regurgitation and 3+ mitral regurgitation.  She
was initially started on nitrates and hydralazine and then
transitioned back to an ACE inhibitor as her renal function
improved.

3.  HEMATOLOGY:  The patient had a known thrombus in her left
upper extremity secondary to line placement during her
previous hospitalization.  At that time anticoagulation was
deferred secondary to her recent surgery.  After Neurosurgery
evaluation it was decided that it would be safe to restart
the patient on anticoagulation with a heparin drip with a
goal PTT of 60 to 85 with a transition to Coumadin with a
goal INR of 1.5 to 2.

During this hospitalization the patient developed several
episodes of guaiac-positive stools while on the heparin drip
and was evaluated by Gastrointestinal who found no
contraindication for continued anticoagulation.

4.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient had several heme-positive
stools while anticoagulated during this hospitalization.
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy revealed mild
duodenitis and diverticulosis with a few venous blood, but no
contraindication for anticoagulation.  She was started on
high-dose proton pump inhibitor for treatment.  She was also
noted to have an isolated elevated alkaline phosphatase
of 251 (normal 40 to 121) and a GGT of 175 (normal 8 to 35)
with normal ALT, AST, and total bilirubin.

Subsequent right upper quadrant ultrasound was performed
which revealed a normal-appearing liver.  It was believed
that her elevated isolated alkaline phosphatase was secondary
to her obesity and diabetes, and no further therapy was
needed at this t