Admission Date:  [**2176-12-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2176-12-31**]


Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 82 year old
gentleman with past medical history significant for
metastatic colon cancer status post colectomy, atrial
fibrillation, who presented from nursing home after noted to
have systolic blood pressure in the 70s with heart rate from
the 140s to 150s.  The nursing home notes that he did not
have much of an appetite recently.  The patient started
feeling weak about three days ago.  He denied shortness of
breath, cough, fever, shakes.  Did admit to some chills.
Denied muscle aches.  No abdominal pain, diarrhea, dysuria.
Review of systems otherwise negative.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Positive for CHF, a-fib, unresectable
colon cancer status post gastrojejunostomy and ileotransverse
colectomy, glaucoma, left nephrectomy secondary to stabbing,
status post cataract surgery, meningioma.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Protonix, Lopressor, folic acid, vitamin B,
multivitamin, rimantadine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in a nursing home.  His
sister is his health care proxy.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vitals on admission were t-max 101,
blood pressure 40s/20s, respiratory rate 40, O2 sat 86 to 94
percent on 100 percent nonrebreather.  ABG 7.30/50/104.
Repeat gas pH 7.24, PCO2 55, PO2 69.  He was lying in bed in
acute distress.  Neck significant for retractions.
Cardiovascular was tachy with no murmurs, rubs or gallops
appreciated.  Respiratory exam was diffuse rhonchi, decreased
breath sounds at the right base.  Abdomen had well healing
abdominal incision, no erythema, active bowel sounds, soft,
nontender.  Extremities cool hands and feet.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 10.2, hematocrit 34.7,
platelets 274.  INR 1.7, PTT 150.  Chem-7 with sodium 137,
potassium 3.5, chloride 103, bicarb 26, BUN 26, creatinine
1.0, glucose 79, gap of 8, calcium 7.8.  CK 50, troponin less
than 0.01.  Magnesium 1.5.  Blood cultures were no growth to
date.  Chest x-ray with bilateral lower lobe infiltrates,
pneumonia or aspiration versus asymmetric pulmonary edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 82 year old gentleman
with metastatic colon cancer, a-fib, who presented with
hypotension of unknown etiology.  The patient was examined in
the emergency room, however, refused interventions including
femoral line for hemodynamic monitoring and Foley catheter
for urine output monitoring.  The patient was resuscitated
with several liters of fluid for his blood pressure and
remained on 100 percent nonrebreather mask.  He was given an
IV dose of diltiazem for improved rate control for his atrial
fibrillation, however, no change in his blood pressure.

The patient otherwise refused further intervention including
intubation, central access for pressors, although was started
on Levophed for pressure support.  However, this was titrated
off as the patient was not tolerating further intervention
and blood pressure continued to not respond.  Eventually the
patient became apneic and was noted to have pulseless
electric activity on telemetry and exam.  The patient was
then evaluated and noted to have right surgical pupil and
left fixed which was not responsive to light.  No heart or
lung sounds were heard.  The patient was pronounced dead on
[**2176-12-31**], at 12:32 a.m., immediate cause respiratory
arrest secondary to metastatic colon cancer.  The patient's
PCP, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1007**], was notified and the patient's sister,
[**Name (NI) **] [**Name (NI) **], was also notified.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharged to morgue.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1.  Hypotension.
2.  Respiratory arrest.
3.  Metastatic colon cancer.
4.  Atrial fibrillation.
5.  Congestive heart failure.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  None.

DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP:  None.




                [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3090**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3091**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 264**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2176-12-31**]  03:07
T:  [**2177-1-5**]  21:11
JOB#:  [**Job Number 109632**]
