Admission Date:  [**2109-10-9**]       Discharge Date:  [**2109-10-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2066-2-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MED/BLUMGA

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. [**Known lastname 104963**] is a pleasant
43-year-old female who lives at [**Street Address(1) 104964**] Program
Group Home who has a past medical history significant for
bipolar disorder and diabetes.  She was transferred to the
[**Hospital1 69**] from outside hospital
status post fall and splenic laceration.  The patient was
initially sent from her group home to an outside hospital
because of uncontrolled sugars and in the outside hospital it
was found that her LFTs were also elevated.

During her hospital course there, she had fallen off of her
bed and there was a splenic laceration. She was transferred
to the MICU where she was intubated for airway protection.
She was extubated on [**2109-10-10**] and was initially put
on Bi-PAP which she did not appreciate and was doing well on
room air so was transferred from the MICU to the regular
Medicine floor.

OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS:
1.  Insulin NPH 20 units q. AM and 12 units q. PM.
2.  Glucophage 1000 mg p.o. t.i.d.
3.  Amantadine.
4.  Loperamide.
5.  Klonopin.
6.  Risperdal.
7.  Desipramine.
8.  Benadryl.
9.  Lithium 1200 mg p.o. q.d.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Diabetes mellitus.
2.  Schizoaffective disorder with bipolar component.
3.  Obstructive sleep apnea.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Sister died from complications of diabetes.
There is a positive family history of psychiatric illnesses.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives in a group home associated with
[**Street Address(1) 104964**] Shelter program.  She smokes two to three
packs per day.  States she has had an increase intake of
junk food and has been somewhat depressed and worried since
the death of her sister from complications of diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 99.4 F, blood pressure
134/69, pulse 85, respiratory rate 18.  Patient was intubated
with vent settings of pressure support of 5, PEEP of 5, fio2
of 40%, tidal volume 370, O2 saturation 95 to 98%.  ABG:
7.36/55/76.  In general obese woman with ecchymosis around
left eye intubated with neck collar in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils are equal, round
and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular muscles
are intact.  Anicteric sclerae.  Oropharynx clear.  Neck:
Collar on.  Jugular venous distention and lymphadenopathy
could not be detected or examined.  Cardiovascular:  S1, S2,
regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops heard.
Lungs:  Mild wheezes bilateral throughout.  Abdomen:  Obese,
nondistended, nontender with normoactive bowel sounds.
Extremities:  2+ pitting edema upper and lower extremities
bilateral (anasarca), 2+ distal pulses bilateral, warm
extremities, right femoral line which is clear.  Neuro:
Patient responds to simple commands promptly, however is slow
to her response.  Unsure if this is her baseline.

LABORATORY:  On admission white count 12.5, hematocrit 40.6,
platelets 371.  PT 13.9, PTT 27.1, INR 1.3.  Sodium 146,
potassium 4.3, chloride 107, bicarbonate 31, BUN 15,
creatinine 0.8, glucose 103.  CPK 128 to 744 to 957.
Troponin I less than 0.3.  CK MB 6.  ALT 248, AST 122,
alkaline phosphatase 190, total bilirubin 0.5.

Urinalysis with small blood, more than 300 proteins, 500
glucose, negative nitrate, negative leukocyte esterase, RBCs
zero to two, white blood count six to 10, moderate bacteria,
epi three to five.

Pleural fluid with white blood cell 50, RBC 10,125, 1+ polys,
no organisms grown, total protein 1.9, glucose 132, LDH 768.

Serum tox with no aspirin, no ethanol, no benzodiazepine,
barbiturates with tricyclic detected.  Blood cultures
pending. Sputum 2+ gram negative rods.

Urine culture 10 to 100,000 gram positive cocci.

CT Scan of torso with shallow splenic laceration with a small
amount of free intraperitoneal fluid in the mesentery with
greater attenuation closure to spleen.  No aortic injury or
mediastinal hematoma.  No pneumothorax.  Partial collapse of
right lung and right upper lobe with moderate effusion, left
lower lobe consolidation.  Positive enlarged mesenteric lymph
nodes.

CT Scan of head with no intracranial hemorrhage.

Chest x-ray with right sided chest tube, increased lung
opacity in left retrocardial region, persistent left pleural
effusion.  Trauma series with no wrist fractures, no pelvic
fractures.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  PULMONARY:  Patient had a chest tube that was placed to
help with the drainage of the left pleural effusion /
consolidation that was seen.  It was followed by CT Surgery
and the chest tube self discontinued by the patient on
[**2109-10-12**].  A repeat chest x-ray was obtained after
that which showed no pneumothorax.

The pleural fluid was consistent with an exudative effusion
which could be secondary to a parapneumonic effusion.  This
is consistent with the fact that she may have a pneumonia
since her sputum was also positive for gram negative rods.
At that time she was started on Levaquin 500 mg p.o. q.d. for
a 14 day course treatment.

2.  GI:  Patient had a splenic laceration which was mild as
per CT.  Surgery was following the patient who recommended
that the best approach would be to treat her conservatively,
hence no indication for surgery.  Hematocrit was checked
b.i.d. for the first couple of days and was found to be
stable.  No further intervention was done.

Her elevation in her LFTs was probably secondary to drug
interaction since she was taking high levels of Glucophage
along with Klonopin and Risperidone.  At that time, it was
decided that we will hold off on the Glucophage and the
Amantadine, both which are known to cause elevated LFTs.  The
patient was to continue her diabetic management through her
NPH and her regular sliding scale insulin.  Her LFTs began to
rapidly trend downwards.

3.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  Patient was treated with Levaquin
500 mg p.o. q.d. for her pneumonia and also for her urinary
tract infection as her urine was positive for six to 10 white
blood cells.

4.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Patient has moderate anasarca.  At that
time, it was decided that an echo should be done which showed
moderate pulmonary hypertension along with right atrial and
right ventricular enlargement which are all consistent with
pulmonary hypertension.  She is thought to have pulmonary
hypertension secondary to her obstructive sleep apnea.
Initially, she was started on Lasix 20 mg IV b.i.d. which was
later switched over to Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d.

In addition, the patient was also getting Captopril 6.25 mg
p.o. t.i.d. and Diltiazem 30 mg p.o. q.i.d.  It was also
decided to make it easier for her on discharge, she would be
getting Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d., Diltiazem SR 120 mg p.o. q.d.
and Univasc 15 mg p.o. q.d.

5.  ENDOCRINOLOGY:  The patient was initially admitted to the
outside hospital due to inability to control her sugars and
it was mentioned that her sugars were always very elevated in
the 200s to 300s.  A Josalin consult was obtained who agreed
that we should hold off on the Glucophage, although it is
very unlikely that Glucophage by itself would cause elevated
LFTs.  We should try to cover her with the NPH.  She was
initially getting 25 units of NPH in the morning and 20 units
in the evening which was later switched to 70/30 consisting
of 32 units in the morning and 24 units during the dinner,
however her sugar after this new regimen was still found to
be anywhere between the high 200s and low 300s.  Therefore it
was decided to increase it by 20% to a new regimen consisting
of insulin 70/30 38 units q. breakfast and 70/30 30 units q.
dinner.  The patient is also to follow up with the Josalin
Diabetic Center.

6.  PSYCH:  Patient has a history of bipolar disorder and is
on medications consisting of Klonopin and Risperidone.  It
was decided that there was no active psych issues to be
involved.  The psychiatry attending was crib sided and [**Doctor First Name **]
Huppich, the psychiatry liaison came to see the patient
regarding further placement.  No changes were made to her
psychiatric medications.

DISPOSITION:  Initially the group home was unw