Admission Date:  [**2198-10-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2198-10-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2125-12-29**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Gastrointestinal bleed.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72-year-old
white female with a history of colon cancer (status post
resection 10 years ago) who was admitted to [**Hospital6 3426**] on [**2198-10-18**] with dyspnea, "almost black"
diarrhea, bright red blood per rectum, a hematocrit of 23.3,
and an INR of 3.8.  The patient received 4 units of packed
red blood cells.  It appeared the patient's baseline
hematocrit is in the low 30s.  She has a history of B12
deficiency and thalassemia.

The patient's dyspnea progressed over the past one to two
weeks, and it was worse with exertion.  This dyspnea was
greater than her baseline dyspnea on exertion.  She also had
intermittent chest pain during this time which occurred at
rest.  The patient has a history of angina.  The patient
cannot lay flat at baseline secondary to shortness of breath.
The patient received a Gastrointestinal consultation and a
Cardiology consultation during that admission.  A red blood
cell scan showed a brisk bleed from the small bowel but could
not pinpoint the area.  The patient was ruled out for a
myocardial infarction by cardiac enzymes and
electrocardiogram.

The patient denies fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, or
palpitations.  The patient was on Coumadin for atrial
fibrillation and is being followed by her primary care
physician for INR and Coumadin adjustments.  The patient is
on home oxygen; about 2 liters to 3 liters via nasal cannula.

Upon admission, the patient's hematocrit went from 23.3 to
27.1 with one unit, and with two more units her hematocrit
went to 26.9, and with one more unit her hematocrit went to
28.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] with a plan for an arteriogram.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Atrial stenosis; status post bovine aortic valve
replacement in [**2193**] at [**Hospital 4415**].
 2.  Atrial fibrillation (on Coumadin).
 3.  Coronary artery disease with a history of an inferior
myocardial infarction and angina.
 4.  Type 2 diabetes.
 5.  Colon polyps that were malignant; status post resection.
 6.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
 7.  Pulmonary hypertension.
 8.  Congestive heart failure.
 9.  B12 deficiency.
10.  Thalassemia.
11.  Chronic anemia.
12.  Dementia.
13.  Stress test in [**2198-1-14**] revealed an ejection
fraction of 46% with no ischemic changes.  An echocardiogram
in [**2197-4-14**] revealed an ejection fraction of 55%.
14.  A colonoscopy in [**2198-5-15**] was normal.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Outpatient medications included)
 1.  Zoloft.
 2.  Aricept.
 3.  Digoxin 0.25 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Glyburide 5 mg by mouth twice per day.
 5.  Spironolactone 50 mg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Prednisone 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Coumadin.
 9.  Albuterol meter-dosed inhaler.
10.  Atrovent meter-dosed inhaler.
11.  Serevent meter-dosed inhaler.
12.  Singulair.
13.  Lasix 40 mg by mouth twice per day.
14.  Iron.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  A 75-pack-year history of tobacco use; she
quit 18 years ago.  She denies alcohol.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history of colon cancer, cervical
cancer, and diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed her blood pressure was 130/50, her heart rate was
103, she was afebrile, and her oxygen saturation was in the
90s.  In general, in no acute distress.  She was sitting up
in bed.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.  The mucous membranes were moist.  The neck
was supple.  No jugular venous distention.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed an irregularly irregular rhythm.  First
heart sound and second heart sound.  A 2/6 systolic ejection
murmur at the left upper sternal border and right upper
sternal border.  Pulmonary examination revealed decreased
breath sounds diffusely; posteriorly.  No wheezes were noted.
The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Positive
bowel sounds.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremity examination
revealed trace bilateral lower extremity edema to the ankles.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's
laboratories on admission revealed her white blood cell count
was 16.2 and her hematocrit was 30.2.  Her INR was 2,
prothrombin time was 7.2, and partial thromboplastin time was
27.7.  Sodium was 137, potassium was 3.6, chloride was 94,
bicarbonate was 31, blood urea nitrogen was 4, creatinine was
0.8, and her blood glucose was 192.  Calcium was 8.6,
magnesium was 1.7, and phosphorous was 3.8.   Her creatine
kinase and troponin levels from the outside hospital revealed
a creatine kinase from 50 to 56 to 117.  Her troponin levels
went from less than 0.01 and then again negative at less than
0.01.  Urinalysis was negative.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray was normal.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

 1.  GASTROINTESTINAL BLEED ISSUES:  The patient with a
questionable history of melena but a positive history of
bright red blood per rectum.  A negative gastrointestinal
lavage at the outside hospital but positive red blood cell
scan.

The patient received an upper endoscopy which showed normal
mucosa to the third part of the duodenum.  The patient had a
colonoscopy which showed a few diverticula in the sigmoid
colon.  No source of bleeding.  The patient received a
small-bowel follow-through; the results of which are pending.

The patient was placed on Protonix.  She had two large-bore
intravenous lines placed.  Her aspirin and Coumadin were
held.  The goal was to transfuse for a hematocrit of less
than 30.  The patient did not need any transfusions since her
admission to [**Hospital1 69**].  Her
hematocrit was stable since admission.

Gastroenterology was consulted.  On discharge, her hematocrit
was stable at 30.2 and her INR was 1.  The patient was
restarted on her Coumadin but not her aspirin.  The patient
was to follow up with her primary care doctor.

 2.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  Coronary artery disease:
The patient with a history of myocardial infarction.  Aspirin
was held given the gastrointestinal bleed.  The
electrocardiogram did not show any ST-T wave abnormalities.
The patient was ruled out for a myocardial infarction by
enzymes at the outside hospital.  The patient with recent
chest pain and would recommend a stress test as an
outpatient.  The patient was started on a beta blocker and an
ACE inhibitor.

(b)  Pump:  The patient has an ejection fraction of 46% on
last echocardiogram.  The patient was evaluated for overload.
There were no signs of congestive heart failure.

(c)  Blood pressure:  The patient with a history of
hypertension.  Her blood pressures were kept under control
with diuretics and beta blocker.

(d)  Rhythm:  The patient was continued on her digoxin for
her atrial fibrillation.  Her rate was controlled with a goal
of less than 100 with beta blocker.

 3.  DIABETES ISSUES:  Initially, the patient's Glyburide was
held and the patient was on an insulin sliding-scale.  After
the patient started eating her Glyburide was restarted.
There were no other diabetic issues.

 4.  CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE ISSUES:  Chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease appeared to be stable.  The
patient was continued on her home nebulizer treatments.  The
patient is on an outpatient prednisone taper.  She came in on
a prednisone dose of 20 mg.  We tapered this down to 15 mg.
Today is the fourth day at the dose of 15 mg.  The patient
was to follow up with her outpatient physician for continued
slow taper.

 5.  INCREASED WHITE BLOOD CELL COUNT ISSUES:  The patient
was admitted with an increased white blood cell count.  This
could possibly be due to steroid use.  A chest x-ray was
negative.  Urinalysis was negative.  It appeared to be
trending down.  At the time of discharge, her white blood
cell count was 9.3.  She was afebrile.

 6.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION ISSUES:  The patient was
placed on a low