Admission Date:  [**2166-2-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2166-3-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2108-3-2**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 58-year-old female
with a history of hypothyroidism and reactive airway disease
admitted for decreased oxygen saturations and decreased blood
pressures secondary to pneumonia.

She reports not feeling well for the last two weeks prior to
admission; initially with flu-like symptoms included
rhinorrhea and a cough.  She also had fevers up to 102.8
degrees.  Over the week prior to admission.  She has been
feeling increasingly weak and decreased oral intake.  She
also has had a cough occasionally productive; however, no
hemoptysis.  Occasional night sweats.  She denies any chest
pain.  She does not really complain of shortness of breath
but has been in bed most of the time.

She came to the Emergency Department because of weakness and
was found to have an oxygen saturation down to the 70s, which
responded to supplemental oxygen and nebulizers.  A chest
x-ray showed a left lower lobe consolidation.  Her blood
pressure was decreased down to the 70s/40s.  She received a
fluid bolus of 500 mL which increased her blood pressure up
to the mid 90s.  She received levofloxacin, albuterol
nebulizers, and Solu-Medrol.  She received about 4 liters of
fluid in the Emergency Department.  She denies a travel
history.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Asthma for the past 10 years; no history of intubation.
2.  She has hypothyroidism.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Flovent 2 puffs inhaled b.i.d.
2.  Albuterol 2 puffs in house q.4-6h. as needed.
3.  Levothyroxine 75 mcg p.o. q.d.
4.  Azithromycin 250 mg p.o. q.d. (day [**2-19**]).

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Here with fiance.  She denies smoking,
alcohol use, or drug use.  No children.  Works in a mutual
fund office.

FAMILY HISTORY:   No family history of deep venous thrombosis
or clotting disorders.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature was
afebrile, heart rate was 110, blood pressure was 110/48,
respiratory rate was 24, and pulse oximetry was 100% on 6
liters via nasal cannula and 100% on nonrebreather mask.
Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed
normocephalic and atraumatic.  Mucous membranes were dry.
Extraocular movements were intact.  Pupils were equal, round,
and reactive to light.  Neck was supple.  No lymphadenopathy.
Jugular venous pulsation about 7 cm of water.  Pulmonary
examination revealed no wheezes.   Decreased breath sounds at
the left base with an egophony change and decreased fremitus.
Cardiovascular examination revealed normal first heart sounds
and second heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.   The
abdomen revealed normal active bowel sounds.  Soft,
nontender, and nondistended.  Extremity examination revealed
no cyanosis, clubbing, or edema.  The extremities were cool.
Neurologic examination revealed alert and oriented times
three.  Cranial nerves II through XII were intact.  No focal
motor deficits.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory
studies revealed white blood cell count was 6.1 (with 84%
neutrophils and 13 bands), hematocrit was 42.2, and platelets
were 368, and mean cell volume was 89.  Chemistry-7 revealed
sodium was 134, potassium was 3.9, chloride was 94,
bicarbonate was 21, blood urea nitrogen was 56, creatinine
was 2.1 (baseline is 0.6), and blood glucose was 108.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone was 2.2.  A urine culture was
sent.  A blood culture was sent.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed
sinus tachycardia at about 125 beats per minute and normal
axis.  ST depressions in leads II and aVL.  NO T wave
inversions.

INITIAL ASSESSMENT:  This is a 58-year-old white female with
a history of hypothyroidism and asthma coming in with a
history of fever, cough, hypoxia, hypertension, and a chest
x-ray with evidence of pneumonia.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The patient was admitted to
the Medical Intensive Care Unit for further evaluation and
treatment.

In the Intensive Care Unit, the patient continued to receive
intravenous fluids and levofloxacin for her pneumonia.  In
the Intensive Care Unit, an attempt was made to tap a
left-sided effusion under ultrasound guidance, but this only
retrieved 3 cc of sanguinous fluid.

After one day in the Intensive Care Unit, she was deemed to
be stable enough to be transferred to the floor.  She was
afebrile.  Her pulse was 95.  Respiratory rate was 25.  Blood
pressure was 117/51.  Oxygen saturation was 98% on 2 liters
via nasal cannula.

1.  PNEUMONIA ISSUES:  The patient's blood cultures
eventually revealed 4/4 bottles positive for streptococcal
pneumonia sensitive to penicillin.  At that point, the
patient was switched over to penicillin V intravenously 10 MU
q.4h. for further treatment of her pneumonia.

The patient also received chest physical therapy and
supplemental oxygen as needed.  The patient remained afebrile
while on penicillin V and did not appear toxic.  However, she
did continue to require significant supplemental oxygen and
desaturated down the low 80s on room air while walking.  She
had some relief from albuterol and Atrovent nebulizer
treatments.  Her cough gradually decreased and became dry.
However, she continued to have a cough upon discharge from
the hospital.

While she did have a left lower lobe pneumonia, a follow-up
chest x-ray several days later revealed right-sided
infiltrates in the upper and medial lung zones and a small
right-sided effusion as well.

2.  CARINAL MASS ISSUES:  Upon transfer from the Medical
Intensive Care Unit to the floor, the patient underwent a
chest computerized axial tomography to further evaluate her
effusion and pneumonia.

On this chest computerized axial tomography scan with
contrast, a large intraluminal lesion was seen in the lower
trachea carina and proximal main stem bronchi which was
continuous with precarinal lymph node.  There was also bulky
mediastinal lymphadenopathy and bilateral hilar
lymphadenopathy present.  It was thought that this process
was probably malignant in nature.  Also on that computed
tomography scan, a consolidation mostly in the lower lobes
(left greater than right) was seen; in keeping with
pneumonia.  There were small left and right pleural effusions
and a small pericardial effusion.

At this point, the Hematology/Oncology team was made involved
in this patient's care as well as the Interventional
Pulmonology team.

The patient underwent a bronchoscopy the next day; at which
point the carinal mass was biopsied and received debulking
using a laser.  The biopsy pathology was revealing for
adenocystic carcinoma.

The patient underwent a staging evaluation at this point with
first a magnetic resonance imaging of the head which revealed
no evidence of metastatic.  The patient then underwent a
computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis which were also
negative for metastatic disease.

Given that adenocystic carcinoma can be salivary in nature or
origin, the patient underwent a computed tomography of the
neck with contrast to further evaluate for a primary lesion.
There again, there were no masses seen, and no evidence of
metastatic disease.

The patient was evaluated by Thoracic Surgery in house.
Followup for her was arranged with them for a possible
surgery and radiation to the area in the future.

3.  PULMONARY ISSUES:  The patient's pulmonary status was
complicated by both the carinal mass and a significant
streptococcal pneumonia.

The patient had significant oxygen requirements on the floor
and desaturated quickly down to the mid 80s on room air.
Later on in the hospital course, the patient did have a
desaturation down to 80% on room air; at which point, given
her history of tumor and pneumonia, the question was brought
into whether she was having a hypercoagulable state and could
have been experiencing a pulmonary embolism to account for
her desaturation.

The patient underwent a bilateral lower extremity Doppler
examination which was negative for deep venous thrombosis and
also a computed tomography angiogram of the chest which was
negative for any pulmonary embolism.  The computed tomograp