Admission Date:  [**2189-6-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2189-7-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2128-11-14**]       Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 60-year-old female with
questionable history of congestive heart failure, history of
hypertension and transient ischemic attacks, was short of
breath a few days prior to admission.  She called 911 and
when the EMS personnel responded, they witnessed a cardiac
arrest.  She was in asystole.  She was intubated.  CPR was
started and she was given epinephrine and atropine.  After
three minutes she had a narrow complex rhythm.  She was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit at an outside
hospital. Cycled enzymes revealed no MI, but she was remained
intubated and in pulmonary edema. She was diuresed and then
was extubated the following day.  She was confused following
extubation.  A head CT MRI revealed a 1.5 cm meningioma in
the left frontal area.  She was cleared by neurology and
neurosurgery, and was felt to have no mass effect.  A TTE
revealed ejection fraction of 40% with 3+ MR, consisting of
multiple jets.  She had posterior wall hypokinesis, lateral
wall akinesis, and was transferred to the [**Hospital3 **] for
cardiac catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for history of
hypertension, status post transient ischemic attack and a
question of history of congestive heart failure.  She had
past medical history of a left frontal meningioma.

MEDICATIONS:  Her medications on admission from home were
Lasix 40 mg p.o. q day, verapamil XR 240 mg q day, Doxepin 50
mg p.o. q day, Premarin, potassium, Wellbutrin, Concerta,
Xanax, Moexipril, and on transfer she was on Protonix, Zosyn,
Lovenox, and Plavix.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives alone.  She smokes one to two
packs a day for several years.  She drinks alcohol
occasionally.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Her family history was unremarkable.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Unremarkable.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination she is a well
developed, well nourished female, intubated, sedated, in no
apparent distress.  T-max is 100.4.  Vital signs were stable.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat exam, normocephalic,
atraumatic.  Extraocular movements intact. Oropharynx benign
with fair dentition.  Neck was supple, full range of motion.
No lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly.  Carotids are 2+ and equal
bilateral without bruits.  Lungs were clear to auscultation
and percussion.  Cardiovascular exam, regular rate and rhythm
with a 3 over 6 systolic ejection murmur.  Abdomen was soft,
nontender, with positive bowel sounds.  No masses or
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities were without cyanosis,
clubbing or edema.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was in place
and she had Doppler pulses bilaterally.  Her radials were 2+
and equal bilaterally.  On neurological exam she was sedated
and responsive.

She presented to the catheterization laboratory area and was
talking and then had acute severe pulmonary edema and was
intubated in the catheterization laboratory, started on a
nitro drip, and given 160 mg of Lasix IV.  She then underwent
cardiac catheterization which revealed the left main coronary
was normal. LAD had a 60% lesion at the diagonal 1, left
circumflex was 100% occluded.  Right coronary artery was 70%
mid lesion.  Left ventricular ejection fraction was 40% with
mild to moderate mitral regurgitation.  An intra-aortic
balloon pump was placed.  Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] was consulted and the
patient also had a carotid ultrasound which showed mild to
moderate plaque on the right and the left internal carotid
artery had 40% to 59% stenosis.  The patient, on [**6-18**],
underwent a coronary artery bypass graft times three with
left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending,
reverse saphenous vein graft to OM and posterior descending
artery.  In the operating room her right leg was pulseless
and cold and the intra-aortic balloon pump was removed.
Vascular surgery then did an exploration of the right groin
and the patient then had pulses in her leg and it warmed up.
She was transferred to the CSIU in stable condition on
dobutamine, nitroglycerin, and propofol.  She remained
intubated on postop day #1 and required aggressive diuresis.
She was extubated on postop day #2.  She was weaned off her
dopamine.  Her creatinine bumped up to 1.6.  Her Lasix was
stopped at that point.  She required aggressive pulmonary
toilet.  She had her chest tubes discontinued on postop day
#3.  She was also noted to be slow to wake up and was able to
follow commands, but on postop day #3 she became more
confused and had apparent aphasia and abnormal mouth and
tongue movements.  Neurology was consulted and felt she had
transcortical motor aphasia and recommended an MRI.  Her CT
scan was negative initially.  She remained in the Intensive
Care Unit and required aggressive pulmonary therapy.  She was
also seen by psychiatry because she had been on several
medications preop and they felt that we should not restart
them at that time.  Eventually her aphasia did improve.  She
was also given Benadryl to counteract what they felt was
motor difficulties with her tongue induced by Reglan.
Benadryl was given to counteract that and that seemed to be
effective.  She also had some left-sided weakness, but this
eventually resolved as well.  Renal was following her as her
creatinine did bump up to 2.1.  She also continued to require
aggressive pulmonary therapy.  She eventually could tolerate
and MRI and it revealed ischemic left frontoparietal infarct.
It was felt that she should have her blood pressure remain
high.  She also had a swallowing evaluation which recommended
maintaining aspiration precautions, but said she could
tolerate food.  She continued to slowly progress, but did
remain disoriented.  She also had a low platelet count at one
point and was found to be .................... positive.
Then on postoperative day #10 she became acutely short of
breath in respiratory distress, requiring reintubation.
Pulmonary was consulted and they added more bronchodilators.
She also was bronched and had a mild tracheobronchitis.  She
eventually was extubated on postop day #12 and she was more
oriented and continued to progress and eventually neurology
and renal signed off as her renal function improved and her
mental status improved.  On postoperative day #14 she was
transferred to the floor in stable condition.  She continued
to progress. She was started on Haldol which improved her
mental status tremendously and she was discharged to
rehabilitation on postop day #19 in stable condition.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:   Her medications on discharge:
  1.  Ecotrin 325 mg p.o. q day.
  2.  Nystatin ointment topically q.i.d.  p.r.n.
  3.  Tylenol one to two p.o. q4-6 hours p.r.n. pain.
  4.  Percocet one to two p.o. q4-6 hours p.r.n. pain.
  5.  Haldol 1 mg p.o. t.i.d.
  6.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q day.
  7.  Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
  8.  [**First Name5 (NamePattern1) 233**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1002**] 20 mEq p.o. q day.
  9.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.

Her labs on discharge were hematocrit 31.1, white count
9,300, platelets 330.  Sodium 141, potassium 4.4, chloride
106, CO2 22, BUN 31, creatinine 1.3, blood sugar 114.

She will be transferred to rehabilitation.  She will be
followed by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 13248**] in one to two weeks and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] in
four weeks.


                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**First Name3 (LF) 52066**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2189-7-7**]  11:20
T:  [**2189-7-6**]  23:23
JOB#:  [**Job Number 52067**]
