Admission Date:  [**2172-8-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2172-8-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2104-12-24**]     Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  "Needs BiPAP."

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 67 year-old
woman with very severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
FEV1 of 0.59, continues tobacco abuse on home O2 of 2 liters,
bipolar disorder who now presents with increased dyspnea
times one week requiring BiPAP.  She is followed by Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 29658**] for lung disease, last admitted from [**2-6**] to [**2-18**]
with respiratory failure secondary to influenza infection.
She has been steroid dependent for several years.  The
patient represents now with complaints of dyspnea at rest
times one week, increased rhinorrhea, sore throat and cough,
scant production of clear sputum with subjective fevers and
chills, lower substernal chest tightness.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
FEV1 0.59, PPD positive, multiple sputum negative for
tuberculosis, bipolar, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia,
osteoporosis, appendectomy, hiatal hernia repair,
polycythemia.  Echocardiogram in [**2172-2-7**]
demonstrated left atrium of 4.4 cm, EF greater then 50%, mild
left ventricular hypertrophy, decreased right ventricular
function.

ALLERGIES:  Codeine, phenobarbital and Lithium.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Married with three children.  Husband cares
for the patient at home.  Tobacco use greater then two packs
per day.  The patient with bipolar disorder well controlled.
She uses wheel chair at home.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 100.  Heart rate 99.
Blood pressure 122/65.  97% on 30% FIO2.  HEENT extraocular
movements intact.  Pupils are equal, round and reactive to
light and accommodation.  Oropharynx dry.  Pulmonary diffuse
rhonchi, fine crackles at bases bilaterally.  Decreased
breath sounds throughout.  Cardiovascular distant heart
sounds, normal S1 and S2.  Abdomen soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Extremities no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.
Neurological alert and oriented times two.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 10.8, neutrophils 87,
bands 3, lymphocytes 3, monocytes 6, atypicals 1.  Hematocrit
49, platelets 297, sodium 142, potassium 3.9, chloride 103,
bicarb 25, BUN 8, creatinine 1.3 at baseline, glucose 116, CK
54, troponin less then 0.3.  Arterial blood gas 7.34, 52, 58,
29 on 2 liters nasal cannula.  Chest x-ray slight upper zone
redistribution.  No infiltrate, blunting of the angles
bilaterally.  Electrocardiogram sinus tachycardia, left
atrium enlargement, low limb lead voltages, wavy baseline,
slight ST depression in V3 through V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Ms. [**Known lastname **] was admitted to the [**Hospital Ward Name 332**]
Intensive Care Unit for further management of her respiratory
distress.  She is maintained on BiPAP, although the patient
had difficulty tolerating the machine.  She was started on
Solu-Medrol and continued on nebulizer treatments q 2 prn.
She ruled out for myocardial infarction.  The patient was
started on Levofloxacin 500 mg q day.






                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1197**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 29659**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2172-8-27**]  10:56
T:  [**2172-9-2**]  07:17
JOB#:  [**Job Number 29660**]
