Admission Date:  [**2193-9-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2193-9-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2134-9-20**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medical Intensive Care Unit - [**Location (un) **] Team

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypotension, shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 59 year old male with
a history of hypertension, diabetes, mellitus,
hypercholesterolemia, coronary artery disease, congestive
heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease who
presented to an outside hospital on [**9-21**], two days
prior to transfer, with shortness of breath times two weeks.
The patient had been seen by his primary care physician and
treated with Solu-Medrol dose pak and Bactrim and had had a
chest x-ray consistent with question of pneumonia.  The
patient had had increasing shortness of breath and on arrival
to the Emergency Room for further evaluation complained of
some productive cough.  The patient was noted to have
elevation of his cardiac enzymes and the patient was treated
with Heparin initially and Integrilin added when the
troponins were noted to be elevated at the outside hospital.
The patient became more short of breath, failed noninvasive
positive pressure ventilation (NPPV) and required intubation.
After intubation, the patient's blood pressure transiently
dropped and Dopamine was started to improve his pressures.
The patient, however, became tachycardiac and flipped into
atrial fibrillation.  The patient was treated with Lopressor
and Digoxin intravenously and changed to Neo-Synephrine with
good blood pressure control.  The patient was also receiving
Propofol for division.  As well the patient received an
insulin drip.  Foley catheter was placed with some difficulty
by the urologist at the outside hospital and noted to have
some blood-tinged urine.  Of note, the patient's intubation
was very difficult.  The patient was transferred to [**Hospital6 1760**] for further evaluation.

On transfer to the [**Hospital6 256**] the
patient's Propofol was changed to Ativan for sedation.  The
patient's insulin drip was discontinued.  The patient
continued to be on Neo-Synephrine, heparin and Integrilin
drips for control.  On arrival the patient was sedated with
some Ativan on transfer and this was changed to a drip.  At
the outside hospital the patient also had a pneumonia which
was treated with Levaquin.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Diabetes mellitus; 2.
Hypertension; 3.  Hypercholesterolemia; 4.  Coronary artery
disease; 5.  Congestive heart failure; 6.  Chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease; 7.  Peripheral neuropathy.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

HOME MEDICATIONS:  Lescol 80 mg p.o. q.d.; Lisinopril 20 mg
p.o. q.d.; Albuterol inhaler; Medrol dose pak; Bactrim; Lasix
20 b.i.d.; Metformin 500 b.i.d.; Actos; insulin 70/30 62 q.
AM, 68 units q. PM ? unclear

FAMILY HISTORY:  History of coronary artery disease.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   At the outside hospital the patient
denied fevers, chills, and had some shortness of breath and
cough.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.7, blood pressure
124/68, 138 kg.  The patient was sating 100%, central venous
pressure 12, fingersticks of 94.  The patient was ventilated
on assist control 650 times 12/100% FIO2 with PIPs of 36,
plateaus of 27 and a positive end-expiratory pressure of 5%.

In general, this was an obese man in no apparent distress.
Endotracheal tube was in place and he was sedated.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  The patient was
normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils equal, round and reactive
to light, oropharynx clear.
Neck:  Obese, no lymphadenopathy, right subclavian was in
place.
Lungs:  Decreased breathsounds at the bases, bibasilar
crackles noted.
Cardiovascular:  The patient had distant heartsounds,
irregular, atrial fibrillation.
Abdominal:  The patient was very obese, distended, nontender
with decreased bowel sounds.
Extremities:  2+ pitting edema.
Neurological:  The patient was not responding to verbal
tactile stimuli and moving all four extremities well.

LABORATORY DATA:  Pertinent for white count of 10.9 with
differential of 75% polys, 16% lymphs, and 6% monos,
hematocrit of 30.5, platelets 533.  Bicarbonate 24,
creatinine 1.5, BUN 51, INR 1.1.  Calcium 8.4, magnesium 1.5,
albumin 2.3, alkaline phosphatase 295, total bilirubin 0.2,
ALT 23, AST 20.  Creatinine kinase 170, MB 6, troponin 0.22.
Urinalysis greater than 50 red blood cells, [**1-16**] white blood
cells, occasional bacteria.

Electrocardiogram:  Atrial fibrillation with a rate of 84,
regular rate and rhythm, T wave inversions in V1 to V4, [**Street Address(2) 28585**] depressions in V3 and .[**Street Address(2) 1755**] depression in V4 to V5, not
significantly changes from the outside hospital.
Chest x-ray:  Question of congestive heart failure and left
retrocardiac opacity.
Arterial blood gases:  7.44/pCO2 42, pO2 212 on the current
vent settings, as described above, lactate 0.8.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Respiratory failure - The patient was
maintained on ventilator given his hospital course for
multifactorial respiratory failure  in the setting of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease flare, congestive heart failure
on examination and x-ray and pneumonia on x-ray.  The patient
was maintained on a ventilator, assist control and
subsequently weaned off of pressure support as tolerated.

2.  Congestive heart failure - The patient was thought to be
in congestive heart failure contributing the respiratory
failure.  Unclear etiology, whether this was due in the
setting of acute coronary syndrome with a troponin leak
versus atrial fibrillation with history of hypertension.  The
Cardiology Team was consulted regarding the care of this
patient and they felt that the troponin leak was not due to
acute coronary syndrome but was instead due to sepsis versus
demand ischemia in this patient with atrial fibrillation.
The patient was subsequently started on Lasix drip with
improvement of his diuresis on hospital day #6, after several
attempts at diuresis, and the patient subsequently had
significant diuresis with both the Lasix drip and
Acetazolamide that was initiated for his worsening alkalosis.

3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease - The patient had
significant wheezing on examination, history of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease and question of asthma.  The
patient was started on intravenous steroids and tapered to
p.o. by hospital day #6.  Around-the-clock nebulizers and
with metered dose inhalers, Atrovent and Albuterol, were
started for the remainder of his hospital course with the
improvement of his wheezing.

4.  Pneumonia - The patient had evidence of left retrocardiac
opacity on chest x-ray on admission.  The patient was started
on Levofloxacin for a total 10 day course and also was
subsequently continued to spike on hospital day #3 and
Ceftazidime was added for events of associated pneumonia
given the temperature spike.  The patient remained afebrile
throughout the remainder of the course with a decrease in his
white blood cell count.

5.  Troponin leak - The patient had positive enzymes at the
outside hospital and here.  Creatinine kinase was trended.
There was consideration of acute coronary syndrome but the
electrocardiogram showed no dynamic changes since outside
hospital films.  Again Cardiology was consulted as above and
they felt this troponin leak was not due to acute coronary
syndrome.  The patient, however, was maintained on Aspirin,
statin, during this admission.  Once the patient was off of
pressors, beta blocker was started as was the ACE inhibitor.
The patient was initially on Integrilin on transfer to the
hospital here and this was discontinued after Cardiology's
recommendation that this was not likely to be acute coronary
syndrome.

6.  Hypotension - The patient initially presented with
sepsis-like picture and the patient was maintained on
Neo-Synephrine for pressure support, subsequently weaned off
on hospital day #3 with improvement of his mean arterial
pressures to greater than 50 degrees.

7.  Atrial fibrillation - The patient resolved spontaneously
on hospital day #2 from his atrial fibrillation and was in
normal sinus rhythm for the remainder of his hospital course.
It was felt that th