Admission Date:  [**2194-8-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2194-8-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2120-7-3**]       Sex:  F


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old
woman with coronary artery disease, inferior myocardial
infarction, status post 4-vessel coronary artery bypass graft
in [**2182**], hypercholesterolemia, non-insulin-dependent diabetes
status post appendectomy, and bleeding diverticulosis who
presented to an outside hospital with substernal chest pain.

The patient says the pressure-like chest pain began last
night with radiation to the right shoulder.  She had one
episode of nausea.  No shortness of breath.  She did have
diaphoresis.  The patient says the pain was not relieved by
it a [**6-23**] in severity.  In the morning, her visiting nurse
called the Emergency Medical Service.  The patient was taken
to an outside hospital.

The patient says at the outside hospital the pain went away,
but around dinner time when she began eating at around 4:30
it returned.  At the outside hospital an electrocardiogram
showed T wave inversions in leads V1 through V6 and in lead
III, and Q waves in III and aVF.  The patient was put on a
nitroglycerin drip and heparin.  Her enzymes were significant
for equivocal possibly positive troponin I.  The patient was
hypotensive and was given a bolus of fluid.  She was started
on a bolus of heparin and was mistakenly given 25,000 units
initially causing her PTT to become greater than 150.

She was then sent to [**Hospital1 69**] for
transfer to the Coronary Care Unit for control of hypotension
in the setting of a myocardial infarction.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history is significant
for)
 1.  Inferior myocardial infarction.
 2.  Coronary artery bypass graft.
 3.  Diabetes mellitus.
 4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 5.  Cellulitis.
 6.  Bilateral edema since she was young.
 7.  A ruptured appendix in [**2194-5-14**]; status post
appendectomy with drain placement.
 8.  Bright red blood per rectum two weeks ago.

 9.  Diverticulosis.
10.  Hernia repair.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Outpatient medications included
Lasix, Flagyl, glipizide, penicillin, captopril (doses
unknown).

ALLERGIES:  Allergies include TYLENOL WITH CODEINE which
caused her to be very sleepy.  DEMEROL and MORPHINE which
caused delirium.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a positive smoker.  She has smoked
half a pack to one pack per day for the last 45 years.  No
alcohol use.  She is widowed.  She lives alone.  She has a
visiting nurse and home health aide.  She has four children.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   On review of systems, the patient has
had diarrhea two weeks ago.  She has had occasional
heartburn.  No ulcers in the past.  She does have the edema
in both legs.  No orthopnea.  No paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea.  She does complain of nocturia for the past four
years (she says).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Physical examination
on admission revealed a temperature of 98.2, blood pressure
was 110/38, pulse was 75, respiratory rate was 15, pulse
oximetry was 100% on 4 liters.  She is an obese middle-aged
woman lying comfortably in bed, in no acute distress.  She
had dry mucous membranes.  No jugular venous distention.  No
carotid bruits.  Distant heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs or
gallops were appreciated.  Bibasilar crackles about one-third
of the way up; left greater than right.  Her abdomen was
soft, positive bowel sounds.  She had two wounds on the right
upper quadrant that were draining bloody discharge.  Her
extremities showed extreme lymphedema in both legs
bilaterally.  On the left shin, she had healing cellulitis,
was warm and nontender.  Neurologic examination was grossly
intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  At the outside
hospital her white blood cell count was 8.1, [**Year (4 digits) 14256**]
was 41.5, platelets were 185.  On admission to [**Hospital1 **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) 14256**] had fallen to 37.5.  Her chemistry
at [**Hospital1 **] [**First Name (Titles) 7837**] [**Last Name (Titles) **] was 145, potassium
was 4.1, chloride was 108, bicarbonate was 26, blood urea
nitrogen was 27, creatinine was 1.2, and a blood glucose
was 141.  Her coagulations on admission were a PT of 18.2,
INR was 2.3, and PTT was 150.  Her initial creatine
phosphokinase (the first one at the outside hospital at 7:15
p.m.) was a creatine phosphokinase of 24, troponin I of 0.91.
On admission, her second creatine phosphokinase at 10 p.m.
was a creatine phosphokinase of 26, troponin I of 2.5.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The hospital course will be described
systematically.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The next day the patient was taken to
the catheterization laboratory for questionable unstable
angina.  Hemodynamics showed a cardiac output of 3.75, a
cardiac index of 2.03, right atrial mean pressure of 19, a
pulmonary artery pressure of 70/27 with a mean of 42, and
right ventricular pressure of 70/26.  A wedge pressure was
unable to be obtained.

The findings were left main coronary artery with small
diffuse disease of 40%, left anterior descending artery with
an 80% stenosis proximal to the anastomosis but only through
a small diagonal graft.  The left circumflex had a 50%
middle, right coronary artery had a total middle.  The
saphenous vein graft to posterior descending artery graft was
widely patent with tapering 40% stenosis at the anastomosis,
and an 80% stenosis was present proximal to the origin of the
posterior descending artery which only compromised a right
ventricular branch.  The left internal mammary artery to left
anterior descending artery was widely patent with 30%
subclavian stenosis present proximal to the internal mammary
artery takeoff.  There was no gradient on pullback from the
subclavian to the central aorta.

Assessment was severe biventricular heart failure with
decreased output and severe pulmonary hypertension.

An echocardiogram done the next day showed an ejection
fraction of 60%, an E to A ratio of 0.67, a TR gradient
of 37, left atrial and right atrial dilation, and mild left
ventricular hypertrophy with normal cavity size and systolic
function.  The right ventricular free wall had hypokinesis.
There was abnormal diastolic septal motion consistent with a
right ventricular volume overload.  She had mild-to-moderate
aortic stenosis and mild-to-moderate pulmonary artery
hypertension.

Her findings were consistent with diastolic heart failure.

The patient was diuresed with Lasix with some improvement in
her oxygen saturation.  The patient persisted to have chest
pain during the hospital course.  Electrocardiograms were
performed and showed no significant changes.  The pain was
not relieved with nitroglycerin; however, it was relieved
with Vicodin.  It was found that the patient also had a spot
on her midsternum that, when pressed, caused severe pain.  In
light of the fact that the pain was somewhat reproducible,
and she described it varying on position, it was thought that
it was more related musculoskeletal pain that a cardiac
etiology.

During the course of her admission, the patient had one
episode of a 9-beat run of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia; however, no other ectopy was noted during her
hospital course.

The patient was at times found to be hypotensive with her
systolic blood pressure falling to the 80s.  However, the
patient remained asymptomatic during these episodes with
normal mentation.

2.  PULMONARY:  Catheterization showed elevated pulmonary
artery pressures; a wedge pressure was unable to be done.  It
was possible that the patient had some compliment of
pulmonary hypertension.  At times, her pulse oximetry was
noted to fall into the 80s.  The patient remained
asymptomatic during these times and did not complain of
shortness of breath.  The patient may have some component of
obstructive sleep apnea, but she was also evaluated for
possible chronic thromboembolic disease.

A lower extremity Duplex was done and showed no signs of deep
venous thrombosis.  CT angiogram confirmed multiple defects
consistent with chronic recurrent pulmonary emboli. She was
restarted on IV heparin with plan for long-term
anticoaqgulationi with coumadin.

3.  RENAL:  Through