Admission Date:  [**2125-2-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2125-2-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2062-7-7**]       Sex:  M

Service:  BLOOMGARD

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Cough, shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 62-year-old male with history
of diabetes mellitus 2 and hypertension presenting with
shortness of breath and productive cough.  Two weeks prior to
admission patient developed cough with white sputum with
diaphoresis and subjective fevers.  He denies headache,
watery eyes, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea or sore throat.
Had a sick contact with his wife and granddaughter.  [**Name (NI) **] tried
over-the-counter remedies with mild relief of symptoms.
Three to four days prior to admission patient had increasing
dyspnea on exertion and cough now with brown sputum.  The
patient went to his primary care physician and then was sent
to the Emergency Department for further evaluation.  Positive
fevers, chills, night sweats and weight loss, two to three
pounds.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive for two pillow orthopnea with
this episode of illness, not chronic.  No lower extremity
edema.  No chest pain, no nausea or vomiting or constipation.
There was diarrhea with medications.  No bright red blood per
rectum, no melena.  No dysuria.  Usually active at baseline
without shortness of breath and no chest pain with exertion.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for diabetes mellitus 2.
His last hemoglobin A1C on [**1-18**] was 8.5.  Also
hypertension.

ECHOCARDIOGRAM:  Echocardiogram in [**2121-7-20**] showed
symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy with ejection fraction
greater than 60%.  Mild mitral valve leaf thickening.  Mild
aortic valve leaf thickening.  Left atrium moderately
dilated.  Left ventricle mild hypertrophy.  Left ventricular
function hyperdynamic.

ALLERGIES:  No known allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Quit tobacco some years ago.  Lives at home
with wife and granddaughter.  Was a former iron worker.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Not obtainable.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d., NPH 40
units in the morning and 14 units at night.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  In the Emergency Room vital signs were
temperature of 100.1 p.o., pulse 84, blood pressure 160/100,
respiratory rate 32, satting 92% on room air, 95% on five
liters nasal cannula.  In general, patient was pleasant,
elderly African-American male, diaphoretic in mild distress.
HEENT:  Extraocular movements intact.  No jugular venous
distention.  Dry mucus membranes.  Heart sounds obscured,
tachycardic.  S1, S2.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Lungs:
Scattered diffuse rhonchi.  Plus egophony.  Plus tactile
fremitus.  No accessory muscle use.  No paradoxical
breathing.  Abdomen soft, non-tender, non-distended.
Positive bowel sounds.  Extremities warm, 2+ dorsalis pedis
pulses.  No edema.  Neurological:  Alert and oriented times
three.

LABORATORIES:  Sodium 132, potassium 6.2, chloride 91, bicarb
18, BUN 42, creatinine 1.9, glucose 439.  Baseline creatinine
for this patient is 1.0.  WBC count of 3.4, hematocrit 42.2,
platelets of 85,000.  26% neutrophils with 46% bands,
lymphocytes 18%, monocytes 3%, 3 atypicals, 4 metamyelocytes.
CK was 362, ALT 61, AST 63.  T-bili was 1.6.  Troponin was
less than 0.3.  CK MB was 2.  PT 14.2, PTT 33.4, INR 1.3.
ABG was done, pH 7.29, pO2 36 and oxygen was 81.  Lactate was
8.4.  Acetone negative.  Sputum was produced.  Gram stain
showed greater than 25 polys, 1+ multiple organisms
consistent with oropharyngeal flora.

RADIOLOGY:  Chest x-ray:  Cardiomediastinal and hilar
contours are normal.  There was opacification of the right
upper lobe laterally and opacification of the right middle
lobe.  Left lung was clear.  No pleural effusions.  No
pneumothorax.  Osseous structures were normal.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  150 beats per minute, sinus, normal axis,
normal intervals, borderline LVH, RVH, questionable left
atrial enlargement, no Q-waves, questionable J-point
elevation versus ST elevation in V1 through V3, T-wave
inversion in 3, PT's in V2 through V3.

In the Emergency Department patient was given one gram of
ceftriaxone times one, 500 mg of Zithromax p.o. times one,
650 mg of Tylenol p.o. times one.  The patient was given two
amps of calcium gluconate IV times one.  The patient was
given insulin 7 units and 3.5 liters of normal saline.  The
patient at that point was evaluated by the MICU team and was
brought to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for future
management.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  MICU course.  The MICU course was notable for an elevated
blood glucose which basically required management with an
insulin drip, bronchoscopy which showed normal anatomy and
copious thin watery, tan, blood-tinged secretions throughout
and clinical sepsis for which the patient received activated
protein C.  The patient was intubated briefly for tachypnea
leading to respiratory exhaustion and also was on a brief
course of vancomycin for blood cultures that were positive
for Gram positive cocci.  These blood cultures turned out to
be Strep pneumonia sensitive to penicillin at which point he
was changed to this.  Patient briefly went into prerenal
failure which improved with intravenous fluid administration
and atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response which
was thought to be secondary to hypoxia.  The atrial
fibrillation with RVR was originally controlled with a
diltiazem drip and later was well controlled with Lopressor.
The patient had increased liver function tests which were
thought to be secondary to sepsis and normalized later on in
his hospital course.  The patient had increasing hypertension
for which his beta blocker and ACE inhibitor were titrated
upwards.  The patient was extubated successfully on [**2125-2-23**], after which it was decided he was stable enough to be
transferred to the floor.  At that point he had been on 13
days of penicillin G.  Four of those days were days when he
had been afebrile.  Sputum on the 24th was positive for Strep
pneumonia and some Gram negative rods.  Blood cultures were
four out of four positive on the 24th for Strep pneumonia
sensitive to penicillin.  All other blood cultures had no
growth.  Urine culture on the 25th was contaminated.
Bronchoalveolar lavage on [**2-13**] had a Gram stain
which showed 3+ polymorphonucleocytes.  Culture had no
growth.  AF smear was negative.  Fungal culture was negative.
Legionella culture was negative.  Negative for PCP.  [**Name10 (NameIs) **]
for influenza A and B.  Negative for RSV.  Negative for viral
culture.  Stool on the [**2-13**] was negative for
Clostridium difficile, negative fecal culture.  Urine on
[**2-13**] was negative for Legionella.

2.  Radiology.  Chest x-ray performed on [**2-22**] showed
dense right lung pneumonia as well as a left upper lobe
consolidation.  Abdominal ultrasound on [**2-20**] performed
due to increasing liver enzymes showed a fatty liver presumed
to be NASH, otherwise normal study.  On [**2-16**] a CT of
the chest was performed showing extensive pneumonia involving
the right upper, middle and lower lobes as well as a small
area of the left upper lobe.  No cavitations.  Small
bilateral pleural effusions.  Cytology of the bronchoalveolar
washing of [**2-13**] was negative for malignant cells.
When the patient was transferred to the floor he was
continued on intravenous penicillin 2 milliunits q. 4h. with
a plan to continue the penicillin for seven days past the
last febrile day.  The last day would be [**2125-2-27**].
Initially supplemental oxygen was continued, however, he did
not require this by the second day.  Aggressive chest
physical therapy was continued as well as incentive
spirometry.  The patient on the floor remained afebrile
throughout.  The patient had mildly elevated blood sugars in
the 200's range which was controlled with standing doses of
NPH and regular insulin sliding scale.  The patient may have
his Metformin dose restarted.

3.  Cardiovascular.  Cardiovascular-wise the patient has his
beta blocker changed to Toprol XL and captopril changed to
lisinopril for ease in once a day dosing.  Blood pressure
remained mildly elevated on the floor.  His atrial
fibrillation had completely resolved.  His liver function
tests had also c