Admission Date:  [**2111-6-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2111-6-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2061-8-9**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Company 191**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 49 year-old
female with no significant past medical history who was in
her usual state of health until [**2111-4-18**], when she developed
a productive cough and experienced low grade fevers.  She was
seen by her primary care physician and treated with
Azithromycin for a diagnosis of asthmatic bronchitis.  Her
symptoms resolved and she was well until [**5-29**] when she
became acutely short of breath while walking home from work.
The patient had never been short of breath in the past, and
typically walks six to seven miles home from work each day
without difficulty.  The following day the patient had a dry
cough which was productive of white sputum, and she began to
experience some increased work of breathing.  The patient
came to the Emergency Department on [**5-31**] when her
Albuterol nebulizers failed to help with her dyspnea.  The
patient was given nebulizer treatments and Prednisone, then
decided to return home.  Over the next two days the patient
had fevers and chills, then became acutely short of breath
again on the day of admission.  The patient was seen by her
primary care physician and sent to the Emergency Department.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for being PPD positive in
the past and being treated with nine months of INH.  She has
a history of a benign breast mass and is status post
appendectomy.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  The patient was on Prednisone and Albuterol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a twenty pack year history
of tobacco and drinks one to two glasses of wine per day.  No
history of intravenous drug usage.  Of note the patient
served in the Peace Corp in the Synagal from [**7-/2108**] to [**9-18**].

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery disease,
hypertension, elevated cholesterol, and diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was febrile to 101.4
degrees with a blood pressure of 142/62 and a heart rate of
87.  Respiratory rate was 26 and the patient was sating 85%
on room air and 99% on a 100% nonrebreather face mask.  In
general, the patient was tachypneic, but in no acute
distress.  Head and neck examination revealed pupils are
equal, round and reactive to light.  Clear conjunctiva.
Mucous membranes are moist without erythema or exudate.  Neck
was supple without lymphadenopathy.  Lung examination
revealed faint end expiratory bibasilar wheezes right greater
then left.  Cardiovascular examination revealed regular rate
and rhythm with no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen was
soft, nontender, and nondistended.  No hepatosplenomegaly was
noted.  Extremities had no edema.  Neurologically, cranial
nerves II through XII were grossly intact.  Muscle strength
was 5 out of 5 all around.

LABORATORY:  Significant for a white blood cell count of 12.3
with 81% neutrophils, 11% lymphocytes and 0% bands.  Chem 7
was within normal limits.  ALT, AST and total bilirubin were
normal.  LDH was elevated at 303.  Alkaline phosphatase was
elevated at 123.  Amylase and lipase were within normal
limits.  Albumin was low at 3.1.  Chest x-ray showed mild
symmetric hyperinflation, with no infiltrates, effusion or
edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Soon after admission the patient became
hypoxic and was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit.
Arterial blood gas showed a pH of 7.2 with a PCO2 of 31 and
PO2 of 56 on nasal cannula.  Chest CT revealed diffuse patchy
ground glass opacities.  No evidence of any pulmonary
embolus was found.  The patient did not require intubation
and was able to maintain saturations with nasal cannula.
Pulmonary function testing revealed decreased FVC at 54%
predicted.  The patient also had a low FEV1 at 38%, FEV1/FVC
of 72%, and a DL-VA of 65% predicted.  The patient's arterial
blood gases gradually improved with steroid and nebulizer
treatment.  Gram stain was negative.  Respiratory culture
showed no growth to date.  Fungal cultures and viral cultures
were negative.  Acid fast culture was pending at the time of
discharge.  Acid fast smear showed no bacilli.
Cytomegalovirus early antigen test was negative.  PCP was
negative by immunofluorescent test.  Induced sputums were
negative.  A VATS procedure was performed on [**6-5**].
Biopsy specimens from the left upper lobe showed one focal
organizing pneumonitis with type 2 pneumocyte hyperplasia,
recent hemorrhage and patchy chronic interstitial
inflammation.  Two, patchy recent hemorrhage, increased
numbers of bronchocentric eosinophils and focal acute
pneumonia.  Of note, no granulomas were seen, and specialty
stains were negative for fungus and acid fast bacilli.
Results favor a viral or bacterial process.

The patient continued to improve with a decreased oxygen
demand.  On the day prior to discharge the patient removed
her supplemental oxygen and maintained saturations of 95%.
However, the patient desaturated to the high 80s when
ambulating and thus was sent home with supplemental oxygen
for activities.

Infectious disease:  The patient's urinalyses were negative
throughout her hospitalization.  Blood cultures were all
negative throughout the hospitalization.  The patient was
begun on Levofloxacin on [**6-3**], and was continued on this
treatment for a possible atypical pneumonia.  Legionella
urinary antigen was negative.  Stool samples were negative
for ova and parasites.  The patient's white count remained
stable around 10.0 throughout the hospitalization.  At the
time of discharge the patient was instructed to continue
Levofloxacin for a full three week course.  HIV antibody test
was negative on [**6-4**].  Serology tests for chlamydia, and Q
fever were pending at the time of discharge.  Mycoplasma
antibody tests were negative.

Cardiovascular:  The patient underwent a transthoracic
echocardiogram on [**6-9**].  The results showed normal
ventricular function without significant valvular
regurgitation.

Hematology:  Iron studies were went and showed a serum iron
of 14.  Total iron binding capacity was decreased at 146.
Ferritin was elevated at 682.  Transferrin was decreased at
112.  Vitamin B-12 and folate were within normal limits.  The
patient was begun on iron supplements and should be evaluated
as an outpatient for iron deficiency anemia.

Rheumatology:  [**Doctor First Name **] and C-ANCA were negative.  Erythrocyte
sedimentation rate was elevated on [**6-9**] at 70.

Endocrine:  The patient was continued on 40 mg of Prednisone
to be continued for two to four weeks.  At that time she is
to be evaluated by pulmonary for possible tapering.  She was
begun on Fosamax and Os-Cal for osteoporosis prophylaxis.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  The patient was discharged in stable
condition to home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Atypical pneumonia versus hypersensitivity pneumonitis.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  1.  Albuterol MDI two puffs po q 6
hours prn.  2.  Atrovent MDI two puffs po q 6 hours prn.  3.
Serevent MDI two puffs po b.i.d.  4.  Prednisone 40 mg po q
day.  5.  Levofloxacin 500 mg po q day times thirteen days.
6.  Fosamax 5 mg po q day.  7.  Nasocort nasal spray two
sprays per nostril b.i.d.  8.  Calcium supplements 500 mg po
t.i.d.  9.  Iron sulfate 300 mg po t.i.d.

FOLLOW UP:  The patient was instructed to follow up with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 2146**] in two weeks.  The office was notified and will
contact the patient.  She is also to follow up with Dr. [**First Name (STitle) 3640**]
on [**7-6**] at 9:00 a.m.  She was also instructed to contact
her primary care physician for follow up.






                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1197**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 14028**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2111-6-12**]  14:34
T:  [**2111-6-17**]  08:12
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
