Admission Date:  [**2187-6-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2187-7-20**]

Date of Birth:   [**2110-4-29**]       Sex:  M

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chief complaint was chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77-year-old male with
a past medical history of coronary artery disease, status
post 1-vessel coronary artery bypass graft in [**2169**], who
presented to the Emergency Department with two hours of
substernal chest pain radiating down both arms.

Emergency Medical Service was activated, and he received
three sublingual nitroglycerin en route to the hospital.  His
blood pressure at that time was 180 systolic.
Electrocardiogram in the Emergency Department was notable for
inferior ST elevations with reciprocal anterolateral ST
depressions.

The patient's course was complicated by a ventricular
fibrillation arrest in the Emergency Department, treated with
two pericardial thumps followed by direct current
cardioversion with 200 joules times one.  Mr. [**Known lastname 44016**] rhythm
then converted to a pulseless bradycardic and idioventricular
rhythm.  After 1 mg of atropine the rhythm converted to a
normal sinus rhythm.

He was brought to the catheterization laboratory.  There, a
posterior descending artery occlusion was noted in a
right-dominant system and a percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty was done.  A stent was attempted several
times but was unable to be deployed secondary to tortuosity
of the vessel.  The catheterization was further complicated
by a distal left main dissection.  An intra-aortic balloon
pump was placed at that time, and Cardiothoracic Surgery was
called.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:   The patient's past medical history is
significant for coronary artery disease; and 1-vessel
coronary artery bypass graft times one which was saphenous
vein graft to first obtuse marginal.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  His medications prior to admission
included aspirin q.d.

ALLERGIES:  He has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Positive ethanol use of four to five drinks
per day and positive tobacco use of one and a half packs per
day times 50 years.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Physical examination
upon arrival to the Intensive Care Unit revealed temperature
was 95.3, heart rate was 85 in sinus rhythm, blood pressure
was 134/84, respiratory rate was 17, oxygen saturation was
100% on 3.5 liters nasal cannula.  In general, a thin man,
lying in bed, in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose,
and throat revealed pupils were equally round and reactive to
light with extraocular movements intact.  The oropharynx was
clear.  No lymphadenopathy.  No jugular venous distention.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  A quiet systolic murmur.  Anteriorly, lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  The abdomen was soft and
nontender.   Normal active bowel sounds.  No masses.
Extremities revealed no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.
Positive bilateral dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis
pulses.  Intra-aortic balloon sheath in the right groin.
Left groin with a venous sheath from the catheterization
laboratory.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory data
revealed white blood cell count was 6.5, hematocrit was 37.2,
platelets were 135.  Sodium was 138, potassium was 3.5,
chloride was 101, bicarbonate was 22, blood urea nitrogen
was 20, creatinine was 1.5, blood glucose was 88.  Creatine
phosphokinase was 524, with a MB of 4, and a troponin of 0.9.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   A chest x-ray revealed no congestive
heart failure, calcified granulations in the right upper
lobe.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was seen by Cardiothoracic
Surgery and accepted for coronary artery bypass grafting.
However, on postoperative day one, the patient proceeded to
have a gastrointestinal bleed, passing bright red blood per
rectum.

The Gastrointestinal Service was consulted.  The patient was
electively intubated for airway protection, and an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy was done following intubation.
The esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed [**Doctor Last Name 15532**] esophagus,
[**Doctor First Name **]-[**Doctor Last Name **] tear, friable congestion, erythema of the
stomach body, compatible with gastritis.  Also friability and
erythema in the anterior bulb and posterior bulb, compatible
with duodenitis.

Following the esophagogastroduodenoscopy, the coronary artery
bypass grafting was delayed secondary to the [**Doctor First Name **]-[**Doctor Last Name **]
tear which was felt by the Gastrointestinal team would have
significant bleeding with full heparinization.

On hospital day four, the patient's spiked temperatures
to 103.  He was fully cultured at that time.  Sputum cultures
done at that time were positive for gram-negative rods.  The
patient was begun on cefepime, ciprofloxacin, vancomycin, and
Flagyl.  A chest x-ray also confirmed pneumonia at that time.
The patient remained fully mechanically ventilated.

Over the next several days, the patient remained in the
Coronary Care Unit.  He was hemodynamically stable.  He was
recatheterized on [**7-6**].  That catheterization showed a
stable left main dissection.

On [**7-10**], it was felt that the patient was hemodynamically
stable and ready to go to the operating room for coronary
artery bypass grafting, despite the need for full
heparinization and the risk of gastrointestinal bleed.  This
was fully explained to both the family and his family, and he
agreed to proceed with the operation.

Therefore, on [**7-10**], the patient was brought to the
operating room.  Please see the Operative Note for full
details.  At that time, he underwent a redo coronary artery
bypass graft with a left internal mammary artery to the left
anterior descending artery, a saphenous vein graft to the
posterior descending artery, and a saphenous vein graft to
the obtuse marginal.  He tolerated the operation and was
transferred from the operating room to the Cardiothoracic
Intensive Care Unit.

The patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout the
day of his surgery.  Given his multiple comorbidities, the
patient remained sedated overnight.

On the morning of postoperative day one, the patient's
sedation was discontinued, and he was allowed to slowly
awaken and weaned.  Over the course of the day, the patient
was weaned to pressure support ventilation which he tolerated
well with adequate blood gases.  He remained hemodynamically
stable throughout that period.  However, he continued to be
neurologically unresponsive, not following commands.
Although, his eyes at that time were open.

Over the next several days, the patient remained
hemodynamically stable.  He remained intubated and ventilated
with pressure support ventilation.  Neurologically, he slowly
became more interactive and began to follow commands; first
by blinking his eyes, then with the ability to move his
extremities at care giver's request.

Each day, pressure support was progressively weaned.  On
postoperative day five, the patient was successfully
extubated.  He remained in the Intensive Care Unit for the
next several days, where he received vigorous pulmonary
toilet and gained back strength neurologically.

On postoperative day seven, it was felt that the patient was
stable and strong enough to be transferred to the floor where
he would undergo continued postoperative care and cardiac
rehabilitation.  The patient remained on the floor for three
additional days; where, with the help of the nursing staff
and Physical Therapy he continued to gain strength and
coordination.

On postoperative day 10, it was felt that the patient would
be stable and ready for transfer to a rehabilitation
facility.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON TRANSFER:  At the time of transfer,
the patient's physical examination was as follows:  Vital
signs were temperature of 98.1, heart rate was 68 in sinus
rhythm, blood pressure was 136/62, respiratory rate was 22,
oxygen saturation was 93% on 3 liters nasal prongs.  Weight
preoperatively was 60 kg; at discharge weight was 63.9 kg.
Physical examination revealed alert and oriented times three.
He moved all extremities.  He was conversant.  Respiratory
revealed breath sounds were dimin