Admission Date: [**2128-10-12**]        Discharge Date: [**2128-10-20**]

Date of Birth:  [**2058-2-19**]        Sex:  M

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is known with
abdominal aortic aneurysm initially repaired in [**2119**], returns
now for re-do repair electively.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Allergies: No known drug allergies.
Medications on admission included hydrochlorothiazide,
Lipitor and Nifedical 60 mg q.d. Illnesses include abdominal
aortic repair in [**2119**] which was found incidentally on
physical examination, hypertension, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.

HABITS:  The patient is a former smoker. There is a history
of 50 pack years. Has not smoked for the past month. He
admits to alcohol use, two 12 ounce beers daily. He denies
drug habit.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs: Blood pressure 142/94,
pulse 79, oxygen saturation 97% on room air. General
appearance: Alert and oriented male in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination is
unremarkable. There are no carotid bruits. Heart is a regular
rate and rhythm without murmur, gallop or rub. Lungs are
clear to auscultation bilaterally. Abdominal examination is
soft and nontender with percussible pulsatile mass in the
epigastric area. Pulse examination is palpable femorals
bilaterally. There is no pedal edema and pedal pulses are
palpable 2+ bilaterally. Neurological examination is grossly
intact.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the
preoperative holding area and he underwent an abdominal
aortic repair via a transthoracic abdominal approach with
beveled anastomosis and a left renal artery graft. Patient
tolerated the procedure well, required 6 units of packed red
blood cells intraoperatively and 1500 cc of Cell [**Doctor Last Name **].
Epidural catheter was placed in the operating room. Patient
was transferred intubated to the surgical intensive care unit
for continued monitoring and care for respiratory support and
vasopressor support. Patient's postoperative hematocrit was
34.1 up from 27. White count was 10.6, BUN 22, creatinine 1.9
which was up from the baseline of 1.1. Platelet count was
noted to be 33,000. A heparin dependent antibody panel was
negative. The patient remained in the intensive care unit
overnight. Patient was extubated on postoperative day 1. His
Neo-Synephrine drip was weaned. He remained hemodynamically
stable with a stable hematocrit of 33 and patient remained in
the intensive care unit. The patient's Swan catheter was
changed to a triple lumen without incident. Platelet count
showed an improved response over the next 24 hours to
102,000. Postoperative day 3 there were no overnight events.
He did require a diltiazem drip and an increase in his
Lopressor dosing for rate and blood pressure control.
Hematocrit on postoperative day 3 was 28, BUN 31, creatinine
2.7. Incisions were clean, dry and intact. Abdominal
examination was without flatus. Patient was begun on clear
sips and he was transferred to the surgical intensive care
unit for continued monitoring and care. Patient's nasogastric
tube and spinal catheter were discontinued prior to transfer.
Postoperative day 4 the patient continued to do well, there
were no overnight events and he was mobilizing fluid. His
postoperative hematocrit was 26.1. He was converted to a
Dilaudid PCA. His metoprolol dosing adjustment improved for
his rate control and systolic blood pressure. He continued on
clear liquids. He was transfused one unit of packed red
cells. He did develop postoperative atrial fibrillation on
postoperative day 3 which was controlled with diltiazem drip
converted to Lopressor p.o.

Postoperative day #5 the patient's analgesic control was
converted to Percocet. He continued on his Lopressor. His
creatinine continued to show improvement but no at baseline.
His diet was advanced as tolerated and he received another
unit of packed red cells for hematocrit of 27. The patient
remained in the vascular intensive care unit. On
postoperative day #6 the patient continued to do well. There
were no overnight events. He was rate controlled and blood
pressure was controlled. His central line was removed and a
PICC peripheral was placed. The chest tube was removed. The
post chest x-ray was without pneumothorax. The Foley was
discontinued. He had no difficulty post void. Physical
therapy was requested to see the patient in assessment for
discharge planning who felt that the patient should be able
to be discharged to home if he is here for another several
days. Postoperative day #7 patient continued to ambulate. His
wounds were clean, dry and intact. He continued to do well.
He was discharged to home in stable condition. He should
follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] in 2 weeks time.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR DISCHARGE:  The patient should call for an
appointment for follow up. No driving until seen in follow
up. No lifting anything greater than 2 pounds for 4 weeks. He
may shower. [**Month (only) 116**] ambulate essential distances. He should call
the office if he develops a temperature greater than 101.5 or
if the wounds become red, swell or drain.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  The patient was placed on a nicotine
patch 14 mg per 24 hours. He should continue this upon
discharge. The patient was given a prescription with
instructions to not smoke while wearing the patch and to
follow up with his primary care physician for continued
smoking cessation and antihypertensive medication adjustments
and blood pressure monitoring. Acetaminophen 325 tablets 1 to
2 q 4 to 6 hours p.r.n., lorazepam 1 mg at h.s. Will give him
enough for 7 days until seen in follow up.
Oxycodone/acetaminophen 5/325 tablet 1 to 2 q 4 to 6 hours
p.r.n. as needed. Lopressor 25 mg tablets 1.5 mg tablets
b.i.d. Protonix 40 mg q.d. for 1 month.  Other instructions:
Patient should take a stool softener which he can purchase
over the counter while he is taking narcotics to prevent
constipation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Postoperative blood loss anemia, transfused, corrected.
Postoperative atrial fibrillation, converted with __________.
Postoperative thrombocytopenia. HIT negative with resolution.
Postoperative renal insufficiency, improved.



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2380**], [**MD Number(1) 2381**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2382**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2128-10-19**] 12:37:08
T:  [**2128-10-19**] 14:21:10
Job#:  [**Job Number 63176**]
