Admission Date: [**2181-1-19**]        Discharge Date: [**2181-2-9**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:

Service:


SERVICE:  Gold Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 60-year-old female who
had been discharged the day previously from the medical
service after having an episode of cholangitis. She was
treated with an ERCP and biliary stenting. During that
hospitalization, she was also found to have a severe COPD and
required significant pulmonary toilet as well as steroids and
inhalers. The patient was actually discharged on home oxygen
with 02 sat in the 80s. After getting home, the patient ate a
snack and immediately developed severe right upper quadrant
pain and the pain was nonradiating and sharp. She did have a
cough and reported a positive sputum which she had been
treated for in the hospital with Levaquin. She also had
significant shortness of breath.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. COPD.
2. MRSA pneumonia.
3. Diabetes mellitus.
4. Hypothyroidism.
5. Thrush.


PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Negative.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS UPON DISCHARGE FROM THE MEDICAL SERVICE:
1. Advair 1 puff b.i.d.
2. Levoxyl 50 micrograms p.o. a day
3. Percocet 1-2 tabs p.o. q.4 h. p.r.n. pain.
4. Protonix 40 mg p.o. a day.
5. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6. Levaquin 500 mg p.o. a day x 4 days.
7. Albuterol nebulizers.
8. Atrovent nebulizers.
9. Lantus.
10.      Regular insulin sliding scale.
11.      Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x 4 more days.


PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, she was
afebrile. Her heart rate was 82. Blood pressure 126/52,
respiratory rate 12, 02 sat 82% on 2 liters. She was somewhat
somnolent but arousable. She had decreased breath sounds.
There were significant expiratory wheezes. Her heart was a
regular rate. The abdomen was soft. She was obese,
nondistended. She had some mild right upper quadrant
tenderness with no rebound and some voluntary guarding. She
was Guaiac negative on rectal exam. She was edematous on her
extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her white count was 25.7, crit 35.4,
platelet count 771. Her chemistries were significant for a
bicarbonate of 29, BUN and creatinine of 12 and 0.7, blood
sugar of 166. Her LFTs were normal. Her ALT was 39, AST 20,
alkaline phosphatase 172, total bilirubin 0.6, amylase 74.
Ultrasound showed multiple stones with some mild gallbladder
wall thickening but no ductal dilatation. A CT scan was
performed to evaluate her pancreatitis as well as the GI
service was consulted for evaluation of her stent, question
of whether or not this was obstructing. Her CT scan showed
extensive pancreatic necrosis and the patient was admitted to
the surgical service.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  She was brought to the intensive care unit.
She was significantly aggressively fluid resuscitated and
managed with broad spectrum antibiotics. Her pulmonary status
continued to be poor and a central line as well as an
arterial line was placed. Physical therapy was consulted and
followed her throughout her hospitalization. She continued to
require a significant amount of fluids as well as having
decreased 02 saturations. She was started on stress-dose
steroids in order to control her COPD flare. Her white count
continued to come down and her steroids were slowly tapered.
Her oxygen saturation improved and she reached a sat of 98%
on a face mask but continued to have poor oxygenation on
blood gases. She was continued on vanco, Meropenem, and
fluconazole for prophylaxis with the necrosis of her
pancreas.

We began gentle diuresis on [**2181-1-23**] in order to improve
her pulmonary status. Repeat CT scan showed no improvement of
her pancreatic necrosis and some mild fluid. Therefore, it
was decided that she would go to the operating room on [**2181-1-25**]. She was also consented for a tracheostomy as well
as a G/J tube. Please see the operative report for further
details. Postoperatively, the patient tolerated the procedure
well. She continued to have severe pulmonary issues and
required increasing ventilatory support. She was extubated on
postoperative day #1 and was on trach mask.

Dermatology was consulted for a rash on her body which was
felt to be drug related. Her NG tube was removed and she was
fully advanced on her tube feeds. She was kept on an insulin
drip for tight blood glucose control as she had elevated
blood sugars from her diabetes postoperatively as well as
from her extensive pancreatic necrosis. Antibiotics were
stopped on postoperative day #3 and her white count continued
to come down. Her TPN which was started preoperatively was
weaned off on postoperative day #4 after her tube feeds
reached goal. Her JP drains which were placed in the
pancreatic bed continued to put out a large amount of fluid
and were working well. [**Last Name (un) **] Diabetes was consulted as the
patient had very little residual pancreatic function. They
followed her throughout her hospital stay.

Speech and swallow was consulted also for Passy-Muir valve as
the patient was able to remain extubated for multiple days.
The patient began having high secretions from a pulmonary
standpoint and was started on broad spectrum antibiotics
including vanco and Zosyn. She began having high temperatures
shortly thereafter. Her lines were changed and tips were sent
for culture. Her sputum ultimately grew out E. coli as well
as MRSA and her peritoneal fluid grew out gram-negative rods
from the JP drains. Interventional radiology placed a pigtail
drain of the fluid collection upon repeat imaging. She was
also started on fluconazole after her peritoneal fluid from
her JP had mild fungus.

ID was consulted as the patient continued to have high fevers
while on appropriate antibiotics. The infectious disease
department followed the patient throughout her hospital stay.
The patient underwent a bronchoscopy on [**2181-2-4**] and it
was found that she had minimal secretions at that time and
her airway was patent. She was placed back on a ventilator as
she began to slowly tire out. Her pulmonary function slowly
worsened. From an abdominal standpoint, her abdomen was well
drained with the JP drains and there were no residual fluid
collections and the area of fluctuance over her right flank
was also drained percutaneously at the bedside with only
minimal serous fluid recovered. Skin began to continue to
slowly worsen in the next couple of days and required more
and more ventilatory support, ultimately requiring APRV in
order to keep saturations in the 90s. CT scan imaging showed
that she had complete collapse of both bilateral lower lobes
and significant atelectasis. Again, the patient had a
brachial A line placed in order for blood gas evaluation and
hemodynamic monitoring. This showed that the patient
continued to have very poor oxygenation and began having high
PC02 levels even with complete aggressive pulmonary
management.

The patient continued to do more and more poorly and
esophageal manometry  was used in order to maximize her PEEP.
Again, her oxygen saturations were not able to be kept above
90 and she was on 100% FI02. She was restarted on her TPN and
her antibiotics were changed to linezolid, meropenem, and
caspofungin.

The renal service was consulted in order for CVVH in order to
help with oxygenation. A Quinton catheter was placed and the
patient was placed on CVVH. Again, her oxygen saturations did
not improve significantly and her PC02 was in the 80s. A new
A-line was placed on the 25th and the patient continued to
have significantly poor oxygenation and 02 sats slowly began
to drop. She was completely paralyzed and sedated and was
started on Levophed for blood pressure support. She was given
continuous bicarb drip through her CVVH to correct her
acidosis.

A discussion was carried out with the family and the grave
prognosis was discussed at length. The family decided to make
this patient comfort measures only and her pressors were
stopped as well as her ventilator. The patient expired at
10:40 p.m. on [**2181-2-9**] after removal of her pressors.
Postmortem was denied. The patient died on [**2181-2-9**].



                        [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 7542**], [**MD Number