Admission Date:  [**2135-6-17**]       Discharge Date:  [**2135-6-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2101-1-8**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 34 year old man with a
history of alcohol and cocaine abuse, psychosis who presented
to the Emergency Department with shortness of breath.  The
patient stated that he had been feeling poorly with shortness
of breath for one and a half weeks prior to admission.  Also
he noted a cough that had become increasingly purulent.  He
believes this all started with a drinking binge and cocaine
binge.  He disappeared from home for one to two days and when
he returned he had a fever, cough and chills.  After initial
improvement in his symptoms they then returned and became
progressively worse.  He developed pleuritic chest pain,
anorexia, and he went to the Emergency Room for evaluation.

In the Emergency Room he had worsening shortness of breath
requiring intubation.  He received Ceftriaxone and
Azithromycin intravenously for probable community acquired
pneumonia.  Chest x-ray demonstrated left upper lobe
consolidation consistent with pneumonia.  The patient was
admitted to the Medicine Intensive Care Unit for further
evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Psychosis; 2.  Mania; 3.  History
of suicide attempts; 4.  Status post treatment of INH for a
positive PPD; 5.  Human immunodeficiency virus negative in
the past, unclear of time; 6.  History of alcohol abuse; 7.
History of cocaine abuse.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1.  Depakote 1 gm q.h.s.; 2.
Divalproex 500 mg p.o. q.h.s.; 3.  ? Thiothixene 10 mg p.o.
q.h.s.; 4.  Zyprexa 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.; 5.  Bupropion 100 mg
p.o. b.i.d.; 6.  Remeron 0.5 mg; 7.  ? Lithium.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his partner in
[**Location (un) 538**].  He has a long alcohol history and says his
last drink was ten days ago.  He does smoke and unclear
number of packs per day, history of intranasal cocaine use,
no known history of intravenous drug use.  The patient does
not have a primary care doctor who he sees on a regular
basis.  He has no known family in the area.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 101, 120, 128/80, 34, 88%
on room air.  In general he was originally speaking in full
sentences with no use of accessory muscles or dyspnea.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat, pupils equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular movements
intact.  Neck supple.  Chest, left-sided rhonchi, wheezes and
crackles with egophony.  Cor, tachycardiac with no murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  Abdomen, soft, nontender, no positive bowel
sounds.  Lower extremities, no edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 42.5, hematocrit
37.9, platelets 312.  Sodium 129, potassium 4.8, BUN 130,
creatinine 3.0.  ALT 25, AST 89, alkaline phosphatase 143,
total bilirubin 1.1, creatinine kinase 37 to 46, troponin 0.6
to 0.5, acetone negative, valproate level less than 1,
lithium level less than 0.2, serum tox negative for alcohol,
urine tox negative.  Arterial blood gases 7.23/40/102,
lactate 1.8.  Electrocardiogram was sinus tachycardia with ST
elevations in V2 and V3.  No change from [**2135-4-2**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Pneumonia - Chest x-ray on admission
demonstrated consolidation of left upper lobe.  Chest
computerized tomography scan revealed extensive consolidation
of left upper lobe with gas products worrisome for cavitary
necrosis.  In the Medicine Intensive Care Unit he was started
on steroids for hypotension and presumed sepsis.  Necroscopy
was performed which revealed bloody secretions aspirated from
the trachea.  Right main stem bronchus and right VL.  VL
performed from the left lung segment.  No frank hemoptysis or
endobronchial lesions were noted.  Culture data revealed
Methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus.  The patient was
initially held on Ceftriaxone and Erythromycin.  Levaquin was
added and then the patient was changed to Clindamycin upon
return of sensitivities.  Blood cultures were negative except
for one of four bottles with Staphylococcus coag negative
which was thought to be contamination.  The patient was
extubated on hospital day #5.  He was then transferred to the
floor on hospital day #6 for further management.  The patient
did have occasional temperatures which initially were started
on Oxacillin.  Pulmonary consult was obtained who recommended
discontinuing the Oxacillin and following.  The patient had
repeat computerized tomography scan of the chest which
revealed a large cavitary lesion, 10 by 6 left lung as well
spinal anesthesia left-sided pleural effusion with
enhancement on computerized tomography scan.  Initially this
was observed for one day.  However, the patient then spiked a
temperature to 101.6.  Thoracentesis was advised, however,
the patient declined.  He wished to seek a second opinion at
another institution prior to implementing this.  He will be
discharged on Clindamycin to complete a six week course and
plan for hopeful thoracentesis at another institution.

2.  Sepsis - The patient had hypotension following his
pneumonia.  This was felt to be secondary to his
Staphylococcus aureus.  Blood cultures did remain positive.
The patient did respond well with antibiotic course.  The
patient did have cortisol performed in the Medicine Intensive
Care Unit which was low.  The patient was felt to have
adrenal insufficiency in the setting of sepsis and was
treated with a course of Hydrocortisone.  Blood pressure was
stable following this course and on the floor.

3.  Anemia - The patient had an episode of hemoptysis
following intubation.  No identifiable lesion was seen on
bronchoscopy.  The patient's blood counts slightly decreased
during his hospital course and was 26 on the day of
discharge.  He did require a couple of units of packed red
blood cells during his admission.  Titers revealed elevated
ferritin but low iron.  It was felt the patient did have an
iron deficiency anemia.

4.  Acute renal failure - The patient came in with a
creatinine of 3, likely secondary to prerenal azotemia.  The
patient's creatinine and electrolytes improved through his
hospital course and he has normal renal function at the time
of his discharge.

5.  Alcohol abuse - The patient has a history of alcohol
abuse.  He was initially on Versed while intubated.  The
patient did not have any signs of withdrawal on the floor.
He was seen by Addiction Services for this as well as his
cocaine use.  The patient did not wish to have any inpatient
evaluation done.  He wants to seek outpatient follow up.

6.  Psychiatric - The patient was very agitated in the
Emergency Department and while he was intubated when his
sedation was lighted he was slightly combative, unclear if it
was due to medication he was receiving.  He was seen by
Psychiatry on the floor and they felt that he either had
bipolar disorder or schizo-affective disorder based on
available information.  He declined to have outpatient
provider [**Name Initial (PRE) 653**].  The patient was deemed safe at that time
and was restarted on Zyprexa, Depakote, Bupropion.  Other
medications were not restarted as their dosage could not be
confirmed.  He will follow up with his outpatient provider.
[**Name10 (NameIs) **] also had an electroencephalogram performed due to question
of seizure activity which revealed moderate encephalopathy
which was likely in the setting of his infection.

7.  Atrial fibrillation - The patient had an episode of
atrial fibrillation upon his admission to the Emergency
Department.  This required cardioversion times two.  The
patient did not have any further episodes of atrial
fibrillation during his hospital course and this likely
occurred in the setting of infection.  Transthoracic
echocardiogram was performed which demonstrated normal
systolic ejection fraction greater than 55%, trivial mitral
regurgitation, trivial tricuspid regurgitation, otherwise
normal echocardiogram with no signs of endocarditis.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Fair.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Upon hearing that thoracentesis was
requested, the patient became very angry an