Admission Date: [**2135-7-22**]        Discharge Date: [**2135-7-25**]

Date of Birth:  [**2058-9-23**]        Sex:  M

Service:  NME


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Right sided weakness, aphasia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 76 year old right hand man
with a history of hypertension, congestive heart failure and
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who presents with new onset of
atrial fibrillation, onset of hemiparesis and aphasia.  At
11:30 A.M. he walked into the bathroom and the wife heard him
coughing so she asked him what was wrong.  He did not answer
so she went into the bathroom and found him with right sided
facial droop and inability to answer her.  She helped him to
the bed and noticed that he was dragging his right arm and
leg.  She called security in her building and her daughter.
The security proceeded to call 911.  He was taken to [**Hospital3 9683**] where they suspected stroke and did a noncontrast
head CT which showed left MCA hyperdense sign.  He was given
84 mg of intravenous heparin at 2:40 P.M. with an INR of 1.07
and 20 mg labetalol for a blood pressure of 152/102.
Afterwards he was able to lift his right arm but did not
speak though he was able to comprehend what his wife said per
the notes.  He was then transferred to [**Hospital1 190**] for further care.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Recently patient denied any fever,
chills, nausea, vomiting, headache, neck pain, weakness,
numbness, tingling, dizziness, visual changes, hearing
changes, chest pain, shortness of breath, abdominal pain,
dysuria, hematuria, diarrhea, bright red blood per rector or
bowel/bladder problems.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Congestive heart failure secondary to
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Hypertension.

New onset atrial fibrillation.

Herpes Zoster.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is a former grammar school teacher who
lives with his wife in a community home.  He is from [**Country 2045**].
There is no tobacco or drug use in his history.  He rarely
drink alcohol.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Lasix 40 mg P.O. B.I.D, potassium
supplement 10 mg P.O. B.I.D, Toprol XL 50 mg P.O. q.d.,
aspirin.

ALLERGIES:  None.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Upon admission pulse 85, in atrial
fibrillation, afebrile.  Blood pressure 150/87, 100 percent
on room air, respiratory rate 20.  A very pleasant man in no
acute distress.  Neck is supple without carotid bruits.
Cardiovascular:  Irregular irregular rhythm with no murmurs.
Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen soft,
nontender, nondistended.  Extremities showed no clubbing,
cyanosis or edema.  Neurologic examination:  He is awake,
alert, cooperative to examination.  He is oriented to person,
place and date.  His English is not fluid with maximum words
of "I can't speak" in French.  He has good comprehension and
repetition.  Naming is intact missing only the word cactus.
There is no dysarthria, paresthesia.  There is some right
sided neglect.  The [**Location (un) 1131**] is intact.  On cranial nerve
examination the pupils are equal, round, and reactive to
light 4 to 3 mm bilaterally.  Visual fields are full to
confrontation.  Extraocular eye movements are intact
bilaterally without nystagmus.  Facial sensation is intact
and symmetric.  There is a right facial droop.  He is intact
to finger rub bilaterally.  Palatal elevation is symmetric.
Sternocleidomastoid and trapezius are normal bilaterally.
Tongue is midline without fasciculation.  On motor
examination he has normal bulk and tone bilaterally.  He has
full power 5 out of 4 throughout.  There is a slight right
pronator drift.  On sensory examination he is intact to light
touch.  Though difficult to assess now he may have extension
on the right to double sinus change stimuli.  On reflexes he
is 2+ out of 4+ except at the plantar which is 2 out of 4
bilaterally.  Toes are upgoing on the right and new on the
left.  On coordination normal near nose to finger test.  A
gait examination was not assessed.

LABORATORY DATA UPON ADMISSION:  White count 8.7, hematocrit
45.3, platelets 165, INR 1.5.  PTT 30.7, PT 15.1.  Sodium
142, potassium 3.7, chloride 105, bicarbonate 26, BUN 13,
creatinine 1, glucose 158.  Urinalysis negative.  Noncontrast
head CT showed calcification of basal ganglia near the right
MCA.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Neurology
Service and his blood pressures were kept under 150 systolic.
He was ruled out for myocardial infarction.  Fasting lipid
panel showed normal lipids.  He was started on low dose
statin for stroke prevention.  24 hours after intravenous TPA
administration, noncontrast head CT was done which showed no
evidence of bleed so he was then started on intravenous
heparin for his atrial fibrillation.  Later on he was also
started on Coumadin for the atrial fibrillation.  The MRI/MRA
of the brain showed left acute MCA infarction with effusion
positive images in the left temporoparietal region near the
insula and posterior portion of the brain.  There is no
evidence of blood on successive images.  MRA of the head and
neck showed no evidence of stenosis.  Transthoracic
echocardiogram was obtained showing bilateral atrial
enlargement, ejection fraction of 40 percent, and atrial
septal defect.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1. Left MCA cerebral infarction.
2. Atrial fibrillation.
3. Atrial septal defect.


DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Coumadin 5 mg P.O. q.d., Lipitor 10
mg P.O. q.d., Toprol XL 15 mg P.O. q d., Lasix 20 mg P.O.
B.I.D

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

FOLLOW UP:  Patient is to follow up with primary care
physician, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 56516**], on [**7-26**] for an INR check and with
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 56517**] in [**Hospital 878**] Clinic on [**2135-9-29**].



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 6600**], [**MD Number(1) 6601**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 11265**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2135-7-25**] 17:05:52
T:  [**2135-7-25**] 18:32:57
Job#:  [**Job Number 56518**]
