Admission Date:  [**2133-6-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2133-7-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2075-6-12**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CARDIOTHOR

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58-year-old
woman who was admitted with chest pain and shortness of
breath, which started about two weeks ago.  This was
described as sharp pain of very short duration.  The patient
also claimed that at the same time she felt like everything
was shutting down with decreasing urine output and decreasing
bowel movements.  She rested times four days with some
improvement, but then felt stressed about her personal life.
Her blood pressure was up in the 150/80 range; this was
checked by her sister, who was an R.N.

About one week prior to admission, the patient noticed
increasing dyspnea at night with stabbing left chest pain and
the sensation of her heart racing.  About five to six days
prior to admission, the patient went to an outpatient center
because she had the same pain, which was also associated with
heavy wheezing.  This was worse with lying down and with
exertion.  The patient complained of positive nocturnal
dyspnea.  She fell asleep lying flat but then awoke gasping,
sitting upright for the rest of the night.  She tried
albuterol inhaler, but worsened after the use of the
albuterol.  She also complained of a sore throat for the past
two weeks with a sensation of pills sticking in her throat.
The patient claimed to have a low grade fever with morning
chills, positive cough but no sputum, positive nausea but no
vomiting and positive constipation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The past medical history was
significant for a prosthetic mitral valve and aortic valve,
both Bjork-Shiley valves implanted in [**2126**] secondary to
rheumatic heart disease, gastroesophageal reflux disease,
atrial fibrillation since [**2125**], endocarditis in [**2130**], a motor
vehicle accident in [**2123**] with a pinched cervical nerve
suffered from that accident, a cardiac catheterization in
[**2132-8-17**] with no intervention and a history of fibroid
tumors.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d.
Claritin 10 mg p.o. q.d.
Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q.d.
Spironolactone 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d.
Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d.
Lasix 240 mg p.o. b.i.d.
Captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
Potassium chloride 10 mEq t.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  The patient had allergies to Atrovent,
ampicillin, amoxicillin, sulfa, Macrodantin, Biaxin and
erythromycin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient had no tobacco use and no
alcohol use since [**2107**]; prior to that, she was a social
drinker.  She was a disabled schoolteacher who lived alone.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The family history was significant for
coronary artery disease and cancer but no diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, vital signs revealed a
blood pressure of 95/59, a heart rate in the 60s, a
respiratory rate of 19 and an oxygen saturation of 97% on one
liter.  On general examination, the patient was an obese
white woman in bed, who was alert and in no acute distress.
On head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination, the sclerae
were anicteric and noninjected.  The mucous membranes were
moist.  The oropharynx was without lesions.  There was no
exudate or erythema.  The neck was supple with a soft collar
in place.  There was no lymphadenopathy or jugular venous
distention.

The chest was clear bilaterally with well healed surgical
scars.  The cardiovascular examination revealed a regular
mechanical S1 and S2.  The abdomen was obese and soft with
minimal tenderness, normal active bowel sounds and no masses.
The extremities had no clubbing or cyanosis.  There was
positive edema to the knees, nonpitting.  On neurological
examination, the patient was alert and oriented times three
with a nonfocal examination.

LABORATORY DATA:  There was a sodium of 140, potassium of
3.2, chloride of 97, bicarbonate of 27, BUN of 14, creatinine
of 0.8 and glucose of 124.  Calcium was 9.2, magnesium was
2.0 and phosphate was 3.8.  CK was 38.  There was a white
blood cell count of 11,800, hematocrit of 34.3 and platelet
count of 330,000.  Prothrombin time was 24, partial
thromboplastin time was 39.4 and INR was 3.8.

RADIOLOGY:  A chest x-ray showed mild pulmonary vascular
engorgement, but no overt pulmonary edema.

ELECTROCARDIOGRAM:  The electrocardiogram showed atrial
fibrillation with a rate of 75 and diffuse small ST segment
depressions in II, V5 and V6, inferolateral.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the medicine
service for rule out myocardial infarction with a plan to
reverse her INR and then repeat her cardiac catheterization.
She had an echocardiogram done on the day of admission, which
showed an aortic gradient of 35 and a mitral valve gradient
of 16, both increased from the prior month's echocardiogram.

The patient underwent cardiac catheterization on [**2133-6-19**] and
the catheterization showed normal coronary arteries except
for a 30% ostial stenosis of the right coronary artery with
moderate to severe pulmonary artery hypertension.
Cardiothoracic surgery was consulted and her case was
reviewed by them.  It was felt that the patient would benefit
from mitral valve replacement; however, the patient stated
that there were technical problems with her prior surgery at
[**Hospital6 1129**] and the surgery was delayed
until the records could be obtained and reviewed.

The patient was brought to the operating room on [**2133-6-23**] for
re-do mitral valve replacement with a #27 Carbomedics valve
via a right thoracotomy.  She tolerated the procedure well
and was transferred from the operating room to the
cardiothoracic intensive care unit.  Please see the operative
note for full details.  At the time of transfer, she had an
arterial line, a Swan-Ganz catheter, two atrial pacing wires
and two pleural chest tubes.  At the time of transfer, her
heart rate was 90, atrially paced, and her blood pressure was
115/62 with a central venous pressure of 16 and a pulmonary
artery pressure of 88/38 with a mean of 57.

The patient did well in the immediate postoperative period.
She was weaned from her propofol and weaned from the
ventilator and extubated on the morning of postoperative day
#1.  Later in the day, she was transferred from the intensive
care unit to [**Hospital Ward Name **] for continuing postoperative care and
cardiac rehabilitation.

Once on the floor, the patient did well.  Her chest tubes
were discontinued and she was started back on her Coumadin to
protect her remaining mechanical valve.  Over the next
several days, the patient's activity level was gradually
increased to the point where she was walking 100 feet in the
hallways with minimal assistance.  During that time, her
hemodynamic status remained stable, as did her respiratory
status.

On postoperative day #3, the patient was noted to again be in
atrial flutter.  At that time, she was treated with Lopressor
and started on procainamide.  However, she remained in atrial
flutter.  Both her Lopressor and procainamide were continued.

On postoperative day #6, it was deemed that the patient was
stable and ready for transfer to rehabilitation.  At that
time, she was screened for rehabilitation.  Of note, her INR
was slow to respond to her being started back on her Coumadin
and, from postoperative day #3 through #7, her Coumadin dose
was gradually increased.  Also on postoperative day #5, she
was started on heparin to further anticoagulate her while
waiting for her INR to respond to the increasing Coumadin
doses.

On postoperative day #9, the patient remained stable and she
was accepted to a rehabilitation facility closer to her home.
She remained hemodynamically stable and ready for transfer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT TRANSFER:  Vital signs revealed a
temperature of 97.4??????F, a heart rate of 83 with atrial
flutter, a blood pressure of 111/83, a respiratory rate of 18
and an oxygen saturation of 97% on two liters.  Weight
preoperatively was 101.6 kg; at discharge, it was 100 kg.

The patient was alert and oriented times three, moving all
extremities and following commands.  Breath sounds were clear
to auscultation bilaterally.  Heart sounds were regularly
irregular, S1 a