Admission Date:  [**2127-3-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2127-4-17**]


Service:  Thoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 80-year-old female
with a complex past medical history notable for subglottic
stenosis with a long-term tracheostomy who presented for
elective placement of tracheostomy tube on [**2127-3-24**].

The patient has been followed on an ongoing basis by the
Thoracic Service and Otolaryngology Service for chronic
laryngeal tracheitis with an associated edematous subglottic
area which has caused complete obstruction in the area of the
glottis.  The patient has since been dependent on a
tracheostomy for proper respiration and has been unable to
speak secondary to her edema.

The patient requested a revision of her tracheal stoma with
attempted tracheostomy tube placement in hopes of promoting
an open airway.  The patient was subsequently scheduled for
this procedure to be conducted through a combined effort of
the Thoracic Service and the Otolaryngology Service on [**2127-3-24**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Aortic stenosis; status post bioprosthetic aortic valve
replacement.
2.  Coronary artery disease; status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2125-8-20**].
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Status post cardiovascular with some residual left-sided
weakness.
5.  Hypothyroidism.
6.  Diabetes.
7.  Depression.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications on admission included
Lipitor, Levoxyl, Atrovent, albuterol, glyburide, and Nexium.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No history of tobacco, alcohol, or drug use.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   On [**2127-3-24**] the patient underwent a
direct laryngoscopy with biopsy, tracheal stoma revision with
removal of granulation tissue, and placement of a #10
tracheostomy tube.

The procedure was a combined effort between the Thoracic
Service (represented by Dr. [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 951**] [**Initial (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 952**]) and the
Ear/Nose/Throat Service (represented by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]).
The patient's tracheostomy tube was placed without major
difficulty; during which time the patient was ventilated with
the intermittent us of jet ventilation as well as ventilation
through the tracheostomy tube connector.

The patient tolerated the procedure well without any
intraoperative complications and was subsequently transferred
to the Recovery Room in stable condition.

Shortly following arrival in the Recovery Room, the patient
was noted to have diminished oxygen saturations with an
increasing oxygen requirement.  On physical examination, no
breath sounds were auscultated on the patient's left side.  A
STAT chest x-ray was obtained which demonstrated a left-sided
tension pneumothorax.  A left-sided chest tube was placed on
an emergent basis with adequate immediate decompression of
the left hemithorax with subsequent lung reinflation
confirmed by follow-up chest x-ray.

During the course of this episode, the patient was noted to
have elevated systolic blood pressures in the 180s to 210
range with associated sinus tachycardia.  The patient was
subsequently sedated and successfully bronched with
mechanical ventilation subsequently provided via her tracheal
site.

The patient was subsequently transferred to the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit for further evaluation and management.

Post episode laboratory studies demonstrated an elevated
troponin to 10.4.  A follow-up electrocardiogram demonstrated
new T wave inversions in leads III, aVF, and V3 to V6.  A
Cardiology consultation was obtained, and the patient was
begun on an aspirin and heparin drip; as per standard
myocardial infarction protocol.

An echocardiogram obtained on postoperative day one
demonstrated no evidence of cardiac kinetic compromise
compared to prior cardiac studies, and the patient
demonstrated gradually decreasing troponin profiles over the
ensuing days.

On postoperative day two, the patient was noted to experience
acute respiratory distress secondary to dislodgment of her
tracheostomy tube connector from her surgical site.  The
patient's tracheostomy tube was subsequently removed and
replaced with a #6 Portex tracheostomy without difficulty.
The patient remained on a standard tracheostomy for the
duration of her stay without subsequent replacement of her
tracheostomy tube.

On the evening on postoperative day two, the patient was
noted to demonstrate an acute drop in her hematocrit from
29.2 to 20.8.  Following placement of a nasogastric tube,
bright red blood was aspirated from the patient's epigastrium
despite vigorous lavage.

A Gastrointestinal consultation was obtained and recommended
vigorous resuscitation with fluid and blood products in
conjunction with discontinuation of the patient's aspirin and
heparin therapy.

An esophagogastroduodenoscopy conducted on the morning on
postoperative day three demonstrated erosions in the stomach
body and fundus in conjunction with blood in the fundus, but
no obvious sources of gastrointestinal bleeding.  The patient
was thereafter noted to stabilize her hematocrit following
fluid and blood product resuscitation.  No additional
episodes of acute gastrointestinal bleeding throughout the
duration of her stay.  The patient was thereafter begun on
total parenteral nutrition secondary to her requirement for
enteral sparing during her recovery window period.  With
stabilization, the patient was gradually weaned from her
sedation and successfully extubated on postoperative day
three.

Upon the weaning of the patient's sedation, it was noted that
the patient was lethargic and minimally responsive.  In
addition, the patient was noted to be hypertensive with
systolic blood pressures in the 200 range.

A computed tomography scan of the head was obtained which
demonstrated findings consistent with a recent left
frontoparietal infarction which was noted to be accompanied
by moderate brain parenchymal edema and mild mass effect on
repeat computerized axial tomography two days later.

A Neurology consultation was obtained, at which point the
patient was noted to have diminished ability to move the
right side of her body and diminished right-sided sensation.
Upon evaluation, the patient's stroke was believed to be
secondary to an embolic phenomenon given her recent history
of myocardial infarction, her past history of atrial
fibrillation, and the recent reversal of her anticoagulation.
It was recommended that the patient be kept at a systolic
blood pressure of greater than 140 to maximize cerebral blood
flow and to maintain on a propofol drip to minimize possible
seizure activity.  In addition, the patient was started on
low-dose aspirin therapy following consultation with
Gastrointestinal Service.

NOTE:  The remainder of this dictation will be continued
under a separate dictation.





                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3351**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3352**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1053**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2127-4-16**]  13:34
T:  [**2127-4-16**]  15:12
JOB#:  [**Job Number 97573**]
