Admission Date:  [**2124-3-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2124-4-6**]


Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left MCA stroke during catheterization.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 87 year-old
male with coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2113**], moderate mitral regurgitation, chronic
atrial fibrillation and chronic renal insufficiency who was
admitted on [**2124-3-20**] with dyspnea on exertion and
decreased exercise tolerance times two to three days.  In the
Emergency Room blood pressure was noted to be 132/70 with a
heart rate of 125 and atrial fibrillation.  CK was noted to
be 115 with an MB of 17 and a troponin of 14.1.  Mild
congestive heart failure was noted.  The patient [**Year (4 digits) 1834**]
cardiac catheterization on [**2124-3-22**] with the following
findings:  Three vessel native coronary artery disease, the
left main had an 80% stenosis, the left anterior descending
coronary artery had a 70% stenosis proximally, the circumflex
was subtotally occluded.  The right coronary artery was
nondominant.  The left internal mammary coronary artery to
left anterior descending coronary artery was wildly patent.
The saphenous vein graft to circumflex off the left internal
mammary coronary artery to left anterior descending coronary
artery had a focal 90% stenosis proximally, and resting
hemodynamics demonstrated elevated biventricular filling
pressures with a right atrial pressure of 13 mmHg, PA
pressures of 43/27 mmHg and a wedge of 26 mmHg.  The cardiac
index was noted to be reduced at 1.6 liters per minute per
meter squared.  At the end of the diagnostic procedure the
patient was noted to have depressed mental status with a
right hemineglect.  The patient was administered Flumazenil
without any improvement.  The procedure was terminated
prematurely and the stroke team was consulted.

The patient left the catheterization laboratory in that
condition and was sent for an urgent MRI.  MRI showed a left
MCA embolic cerebrovascular accident.  The patient [**Year (4 digits) 1834**]
interventional neurologic procedure of intra- arterial
injection of tissue plasminogen activator to the left MCA.
On arrival to the Coronary Care Unit the patient was
speaking, however, was answering questions inappropriately
and was not obeying commands.  The patient was noted to have
increased movement of his extremities from the
catheterization laboratory.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease status post
coronary artery bypass graft in [**2113**], moderate mitral
regurgitation, chronic atrial fibrillation, tachy brady
syndrome, hypertension, benign prostatic hyperplasia and
chronic renal insufficiencies.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin, which leads to rash.

MEDICATIONS:  Lopressor 50 mg po t.i.d., Lipitor 10 mg po
q.h.s.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with wife in [**Name (NI) 745**].
Remote tobacco history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ARRIVAL TO THE CORONARY CARE UNIT:
Blood pressure 160/90.  Heart rate 120, irregular.
Respiratory rate 24.  O2 sat 99% on 4 liters.  In general,
the patient is a thin elderly white male lying in bed awake
and in no acute distress with slightly labored breathing.
HEENT x-ray normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils are equal,
round and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular
movements intact.  Sclera anicteric.  Neck soft, supple.
Moderate JVD.  Heart irregular irregular rhythm, 3/6 systolic
ejection murmur at the apex with radiation to the axilla.
Lungs diffuse crackles, end expiratory wheezing was noted.
Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended.  Normoactive bowel
sounds.  Extremities trace edema bilaterally.  Dorsalis pedis
pulses 2+ bilaterally.  Neurological awake, not answering
questions appropriately.  Moving all extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION TO THE CORONARY CARE
UNIT:  White blood cell 11.6, INR 2.2, creatinine 1.7, CK 196
with an MB of 7.  Echocardiogram performed on [**2124-3-21**]
showed a mildly dilated LA, markedly dilated RA, left
ventricular with posterior akinesis, RV free wall
hypertrophy, depressed RV systolic function with an EF of
45%, 3+ MR and 2+ TR.  Electrocardiogram on admission to the
hospital atrial fibrillation in the 110s, normal axis, normal
intervals.  ST depressions in V2 through V5.  T wave
inversions in 2, 3, AVF, no Qs, no left ventricular
hypertrophy.  Chest x-ray showed worsening failure from prior
study.

IMPRESSION:  The patient is an 87 year-old male with coronary
artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft,
chronic atrial fibrillation and moderate MR [**First Name (Titles) 1023**] [**Last Name (Titles) 1834**]
cardiac catheterization on [**3-22**] for unstable coronary
syndrome who subsequently suffered an embolic stroke to the
left MCA during catheterization.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiac:  Therapeutic catheterization
was deferred secondary to neurologic event on the
catheterization table on [**2124-3-22**].  The patient was
subsequently taken back, to the catheterization laboratory
with revision of the saphenous vein graft to left circumflex
with percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, but no
stenting via a left radial approach on [**2124-4-5**].  The
patient tolerated the procedure well with no complications.
Post catheterization groin checks revealed no hematoma or
bruit.  In addition, the patient was maintained on Lipitor at
an outpatient dose.  As far as anticoagulation for patient's
atrial fibrillation the patient was initially maintained on
heparin on arrival orthopedics the Coronary Care Unit with
subsequent change to Lovenox.  On the day prior orthopedics
discharge the patient was started on a low dose Coumadin at 2
mg po q.h.s. with a therapeutic goal of INR of 2.0.  The plan
as per patient cardiologist was to continue Plavix until INR
was therapeutic times two days and then discontinue the use
of Plavix.

As far as rate control for the patient's atrial fibrillation
the patient was maintained on a dose of Lopresor, which was
subsequently changed to Atenolol prior to discharge.  In
addition, the patient was maintained on Digoxin for rate
control.  The patient was noted to have two episodes of flash
pulmonary edema/respiratory distress secondary to likely
fluid overhydration.  The patient was treated with Lasix with
prompt improvement in symptoms.

2.  Neurologic:  The patient was initially maintained on a
heparin drip with a blood pressure goal of 160 to 180 in the
Coronary Care Unit.  However, in light of patient's other
ongoing comorbidities including issue of coronary artery
disease a compromise on blood pressure control was made with
a goal of 130s to 140s.  The etiology of the patient's
cerebrovascular accident likely a cholesterol emboli from the
aorta.  The patient was then transferred to the Medical [**Hospital1 **]
and neurologic status continued to improve markedly with
better movement of extremities and speech.  The plan as per
neurology was to continue monitoring with likelihood of
continued improvement.

3.  Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  In light of
patient's recent stroke there was great concern for risk of
aspiration.  The patient was evaluated by Speech Pathology
and a video swallowing study was performed, which showed that
the patient was able to tolerate a moist pureed diet and thin
liquids.  All medications were to be crushed.  Aspiration
precautions to be maintained at all times.  The patient was
maintained on a po diet, however, was noted to have poor po
intake.  At the time of discharge the patient noted an
improvement in his appetite and no signs or symptoms of
aspiration were noted.  As far as electrolyte abnormalities
the patient was noted to have hyponatremia to 152 and was
gently hydrated with complete resolution to a value of 139 at
the time of discharge.

4.  Infectious disease:  Initially during the patient's first
episode of respiratory distress, which was likely a flash
pulmonary edema phenomenon, there was a question of whether
the patient may have an underlying aspiration pneumonia.  The
patient was noted to have a low grade temperature as well as
leukocytosis at this time as well.  The patient was started
empirically on Levofloxacin, Flagy