Admission Date:  [**2132-2-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2132-3-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2099-12-6**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

NOTE:  This is an interim Discharge Summary through [**2132-3-16**].

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 32-year-old
woman with no significant past medical history, although with
previous tobacco use and who is seven months postpartum, who
presented to her outpatient clinic on [**2-29**] with
dyspnea on exertion which has been progressive over five
months, epigastric pain, and fatigue.

The patient was sent for a chest x-ray as an outpatient which
showed an enlarged, and she was sent to the Emergency
Department at an outside hospital where an echocardiogram
showed a dilated left ventricle, severe global hypokinesis,
and an estimated ejection fraction of 15%, as well as 2+
mitral valve regurgitation.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for further management and was initially admitted to
the C-MED Service.  The patient was diuresed approximately 2
liters on the Medicine floor but was transferred to the
Coronary Care Unit on [**3-1**] after becoming tachycardic,
dizzy, with a weak pulse, and hypotensive (requiring a
dopamine drip).

Upon transfer to the Coronary Care Unit, the patient reported
shortness of breath at rest as well as overall fatigue.  The
patient denied chest pain or palpitations.  The patient also
reported lightheadedness as well as visual blackouts which
had resolved by the time she had arrived to the Coronary Care
Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  No significant past medical history.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  The patient was not on any
medications at home.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission was notable for the patient being afebrile with
tachycardia to the 110s.  The patient was saturating in the
high 90s on 2 liters nasal cannula.  Physical examination was
notable for bibasilar crackles.  First heart sounds and
second heart sounds.  An audible loud third heart sound.
Displaced point of maximal impulse.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Diagnostics on
transfer included a normal complete blood count with a
hematocrit of 40.  Chemistries were normal with a creatinine
of 0.8.  Creatine kinase was 46.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray showed mild
congestive heart failure with cardiomegaly.

An electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm with a
rate of approximately 140.  Normal axis and normal intervals.
Also with likely left atrial dilatation.  Approximately 1-mm
to 2-mm anterior ST elevations as well as V4 to V6 T wave
inversions which may be related to repolarization changes.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient is a 33-year-old woman with no significant past
medical history with dilated cardiomyopathy and congestive
heart failure.  She is seven months postpartum.

 1.  PUMP/CARDIOMYOPATHY ISSUES:  Etiology was most likely
postpartum and less likely viral; although the patient did
have a upper respiratory tract infection a few months prior
to admission.

A workup for the patient's cardiomyopathy included thyroid
studies which showed a moderately elevated
thyroid-stimulating hormone but a normal free T4.
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate was normal.  Iron studies were
normal.  Lyme was negative.  Antinuclear antibody was
negative.  Serum protein electrophoresis was normal.
Negative human immunodeficiency virus test.

A cardiac magnetic resonance imaging on [**3-12**] did not
show evidence of congenital coronary abnormalities.

The patient was diuresed while on the C-MED Service; however,
she became hypotensive (requiring dopamine).  The patient was
started on digoxin on [**2-29**]; however, this discontinued
on [**3-2**] after the patient had complete heart block on
electrocardiogram.  The patient's ins-and-outs were followed
very closely, and she was in fact very negative with good
urine output.  A Swan-Ganz catheter was placed and showed
fairly low filling pressures, and the patient was bolused
with intravenous fluids as needed.

The patient was tried on trials of an ACE inhibitor and beta
blocker which were started at very low doses, and then
stopped, and then restarted several times due to hypotension.
By [**3-15**], the patient had been restarted on her
captopril 6.25 mg by mouth three times per day with plans to
restart her Coreg soon at a low dose.

 2.  HEMODYNAMIC ISSUES:  In terms of hemodynamics, the
patient was initially on dopamine upon transfer to the
Coronary Care Unit but was switched to dobutamine for
anatropic support with good results.

The patient's central venous pressure was initially
consistently in the 3 to 4 range which was thought to be too
low for her, and she was given intravenous fluids for this.
The patient was kept net even in terms of ins-and-outs.
Dobutamine was titrated off within two days, and the patient
tolerated increased captopril and a beta blocker on [**3-5**].

However, the patient had systolic blood pressures in the 60s
on [**3-6**] with a wedge pressure of 17.  The patient was
started on dopamine once again, and her ACE inhibitor and
beta blocker were held.  Dopamine was continued for two to
three days and was slowly weaned off as her blood pressure
tolerated.

Due to hypotension in the Electrophysiology Laboratory, the
patient was placed on dobutamine and epinephrine in the
Electrophysiology Laboratory.  These were weaned off within
two days, and the patient was restarted on her ACE inhibitor.

The incoming intern will dictate the remainder of the details
regarding her congestive heart failure management.

 3.  RHYTHM:  The patient with occasional palpitations and
with telemetry and electrocardiogram showing some
intermittent atrioventricular disassociation as well as
complete heart block on [**3-2**].  The patient also had
short runs of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia as well as
supraventricular tachycardia up to a heart rate in the 160s.

The patient did have 40 beats of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia with hypotension with a mean arterial pressure in
the 40s on [**3-9**].

Electrophysiology was consulted, and after discussion with
the patient and her family and Coronary Care Unit team, the
decision was made to pursue implantable
cardioverter-defibrillator placement.  The patient underwent
this procedure on [**3-13**], and had a 41-joule implantable
cardioverter-defibrillator placed, including a coil in the
back that was needed per the electrophysiology studies.  A
chest x-ray status post procedure showed good placement.

Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator was thought to be
indicated due to the patient's multiple runs of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia as well as her frequent ectopy and
also due to the patient's poor ejection fraction; although,
it was not due to ischemic causes.

 4.  CHEST PAIN ISSUES:  The patient had a short episode of
positional chest pain shortly after admission which resolved
within two to three days.  This was likely pericarditis
because it was positional and improved dramatically with
Toradol and then Percocet.  The patient's cardiac enzymes
were stable.  A V/Q scan showed low probability for pulmonary
embolism.  Her amylase and lipase were also within normal
limits.

 5.  NEUROLOGIC ISSUES:  The patient with occasional visual
changes that were thought to be due to hypotension.  The
patient had a transient episode of left facial numbness and
subtle left-sided weakness, for which she underwent a head
computerized axial tomography which was negative.

The Neurology Service was consulted and felt that the episode
was likely consistent with a migraine as the patient has a
remote history of migraine headaches.  The patient had no
further episodes through [**3-16**].

 6.  ENDOCRINE ISSUES:  The patient had a thyroid-stimulating
hormone of 9.8 and a free T4 of 1.4.  The Endocrinology
Service was consulted, and the patient was started on Levoxyl
25 mcg by mouth once per day.  The patient was not thought to
be clinically hypothyroid.  Plans to recheck thyroid studies
as an outpatient after the patient's acute illness has been
stabilized.

 7.  ANTICOA