Admission Date:  [**2168-11-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2168-12-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2095-5-12**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 73 year old male with
a past medical history significant for hypertension. He
presented to an outside hospital with a history of worsening
shortness of breath times four days.  The patient was
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
cardiac catheterization, after electrocardiogram showed
anterolateral ST segment elevation and Q waves.  The patient
states that he was in his usual state of health until four
days prior to admission, when he began to experience
shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion.  The patient
attributed the symptoms to asthma, which he has a remote
history of.  Symptoms were ameliorated but not entirely
eliminated with rest.  Over the following few days, he
experienced worsening shortness of breath, orthopnea,
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  He was then brought to the
hospital where an electrocardiogram showed ST segment
elevations in V1 through V4 and lead 2.  He was treated with
supplemental oxygen, Lasix, aspirin, nitroglycerin, Morphine,
heparin.  He was then transferred to [**Hospital1 190**] for cardiac catheterization.

The patient denies paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea,
dyspnea on exertion, shortness of breath, or chest pressure.
He can walk more than a mile on flat ground and climb two
flights of stairs.  He has not seen a doctor for several
years and has untreated hypertension.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Asthma.
2.  Hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  None.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies tobacco or alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father had a myocardial infarction in his
mid 60's.  Two brothers with myocardial infarction in mid
60's.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs revealed a heart rate of
95; blood pressure 128/77; respirations 20; 90% on room air.
General:  No acute distress.  Lying awake, responsive, alert
and oriented times three.  HEAD, EYES, EARS, NOSE AND THROAT:
Extraocular movements intact.  Pupils are equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  Mucous membranes
slightly dry.  Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Cardiovascular:  JVP at 7 cm, normal S1 and S2.  Regular rate
and rhythm.  Abdomen soft, nontender, mildly distended.
Bowel sounds present.  Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or
edema.  Neurologic:  Alert and oriented times three.

LABORATORY DATA:  Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at
135 beats per minute; normal interval; normal axis;  ST
elevations with Q waves in leads V2 through V4.

Sodium 141; potassium of 3.3; chloride 104; bicarbonate 21;
BUN 23; creatinine 1.2; glucose 183.  White blood cell count
of 13.9.  Hematocrit of 43.8. Platelets 327.  Serial CK's
were also followed and were 63 to 58 to 55.  CK MB not
performed.  Troponin was less than 0.01; second troponin was
.04.

Cardiac catheterization:  Hemodynamics mildly elevated;
filling pressures with severely depressed cardiac index,
consistent with cardiogenic shock.  Pulmonary capillary
wedge:  Mean of 16; A wave of 18; V wave of 18.  Right atrium
mean 10; A wave 15; V wave 12.  Aortic systolic 99, diastolic
73. Mean of 83.  PA systolic was 35; diastolic 20; mean of
27.  RV:  Systolic 41; diastolic 3 and 13.

Cardiac output:  Initial was 3.33; post intervention was
3.35.  Cardiac index baseline of 1.62.  Post intervention was
1.73.  Post intervention pulmonary capillary wedge mean 20; A
wave 24; V wave 25.  RA mean 12; A wave 12; V wave 13.  PA
systolic 37; diastolic 21; mean 28.  RV systolic 36;
diastolic 8 and end 14.  Left ventriculography was not
performed.

Coronary angiography:  Right dominant, LMCA normal; Left
anterior descending 100% total occlusion; proximal origin T1;
also occluded apical left anterior descending, fills via
faint right to left collaterals intermedius.  Moderate sized
vessel, 20% ostial stenosis of the left circumflex; small
vessel, normal.  Right coronary artery:  Large ectatic
vessel, 40% proximal stenosis with common 90% large PL
branch.

Interventional details:  The patient had a 42 cc intra-aortic
balloon pump placed prophylactically in the left femoral
artery.  Left anterior descending had a 3.5 by 23 mm Hepikote
stent placed with post dilation, utilizing 3.5 by 15 mc
ranger.  Final angiography demonstrated 0% residual stent
type but pruned appearance distal to the left anterior
descending, beyond D-2, consistent with extensive previous
infarction.  Given ongoing cardiogenic shock, they elected to
treat right coronary artery as well.  The patient had a 13 mm
Zeta stent with post dilation utilizing a 3.0 by 9 NC ranger,
with 10% residual versus flow dissection.

Echocardiogram:  Left atrium is normal in size.  There is
severe regional left ventricular systolic dysfunction with an
ejection fraction of 25%.  There is akinesis of the apex.
There is severe hypokinesis of the anterior wall and the
anterior septum. The mild and distal lateral wall is
hypokinetic. Intrinsic left ventricular systolic function
would be more depressed given the severity of valvular
regurgitation.  No thrombus is seen in the left ventricle.
The right ventricular chamber size and free wall motion are
normal.  The ascending aorta is mildly dilated.  The aorta
properly flows left to right.  Arterial leaflet is mildly
thickened.  Trace aortic regurgitation is seen.  There is no
aortic stenosis.  The mitral valve leaflets were mildly
thickened. There is at least moderate 2+ mitral
regurgitation.  There is moderate pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension.  There is a trivial physiologic pericardial
effusion.  Catheter wire seen in the right atrium.

Limited right coronary ultrasound:  There is a large hematoma
in the right groin; normal flow was identified with no
superficial femoral artery and vein.  No pseudo aneurysm was
identified.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   1.  Cardiovascular:  The patient was
transferred from the Emergency Department up to the cardiac
catheterization laboratory.  In the cardiac catheterization
laboratory, the patient had an intra-aortic balloon placed.
Temporary pacer was placed with percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty and stent to the left anterior
descending using Hepikote stent and percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty stent to the right PL branch, using a
Zeta stent.  The patient was then placed on Plavix and
Integrilin for 18 hours and transferred to the CCU for
continued management.

That same night, the patient developed an enlarging right
groin hematoma after pulling of the arterial sheaths.
Occlusive pressure was applied for about 20 minutes and
Integrilin and heparin were held.  The patient subsequently
developed bradycardia down to the 50's and hypotension with
systolic blood pressure of 70.  Interventional fellow was
notified and the patient was given .6 of Atropine and
Dopamine.  Blood pressure and heart rate responded with blood
pressure rising to 110 over 70 with heart rate of 90.

Vascular surgery and radiology were consulted.  The patient
was stabilized off pressors and inotropes and was continued
to monitor serial hematocrits q. four hours.  Stat ultrasound
was obtained which showed a large hematoma in the right groin
and no pseudo aneurysm.  Normally identified superficial
femoral artery and vein.  The patient was restarted on
Integrilin once the patient was stabilized.   The patient was
continued on his aspirin, Plavix, Atorvastatin, titration of
Metoprolol and Captopril was done and then subsequently
changed over to once a day dosing prior to discharge.
Intra-aortic balloon pump was removed on the fourth day of
admission to the CCU without any complications.  The patient,
by numbers in the catheterization laboratory, showed that he
was in heart failure.  We continued to diurese him every
night with goal negative fluid balance.   The patient's lower
extremities were intact neurovascularly.   Hematocrit
remained stable after the third night of admission.  The
patient was started on Coumadin once the intra-aortic balloon
pump was discontinued on the fourth night of admission. The
goal INR was 2 to 3.  The patient was taught how to self
a