Admission Date:  [**2169-7-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2169-8-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2108-12-10**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Vascular

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Ischemic left leg

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 61 year old female
with a complicated vascular history who now presents with
increasing left lower extremity pain.  She was seen in Dr.[**Name (NI) 19759**] office and on examination it was noted that the
extremity was cool to touch just inferior to the knee, the
patient has dopplerable signals up to the superior component
of the leg.  The patient is admitted for emergency evaluation
and treatment.  She does admit to rest pain over the last
week which has increased in the last several days.  She
denies any constitutional symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Illnesses - Coronary artery disease
with a history of ventricular tachycardia, status post
automatic implanted cardioverter defibrillator in [**2163**],
history of myocardial infarction times two in [**2151**] and [**2152**],
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, history
of cerebrovascular accident with residual right arm weakness,
history of ischemic bowel syndrome, history of renal artery
stenosis with chronic renal insufficiency, history of
polycythemia [**Doctor First Name **], history of deep vein thrombosis in the
lower extremity in [**2155**].

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Status post aortic valve replacement,
type not documented, history of cholecystectomy, history of
right inguinal herniorrhaphy, history of appendectomy, status
post cesarean section, status post nephrectomy on the right.
Vascular surgeries included aorto-bifemoral bypass graft with
thrombectomy, anastomotic aneurysm repair in [**2168-6-14**],
status post left femoral-popliteal, status post left
superficial femoral artery to posterior tibial bypass with
nonreverse saphenous vein graft, status post aorta to
superior mesenteric artery bypass with 6 mm Dacron.  Status
post aorta to splenic artery bypass graft with 4 mm PTFE.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Coumadin, dose not documented,
Lasix 40 mg b.i.d., Tylenol 650 mg q. 6 hours, Folate 1 mg
q.d., Arborstatin 10 mg at h.s., Amlodipine 5 mg q.d.,
Moexipril 7.5 mg q.d., Lorazepam 2 mg b.i.d., Metoprolol 25
mg q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is married, lives with her husband,
ambulates independently.  She is greater than 50 pack year
smoker, has not smoked over the last five years.  She denies
alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Blood pressure is 160/72, pulse 60.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination was
unremarkable.  Pulse examination shows palpable carotids,
radial pulses bilaterally, abdominal aorta is nonprominent.
She has palpable femoral pulses with dopperable popliteals
bilaterally.  The dorsalis pedis are neither palpable nor
dopplerable bilaterally with dopplerable posterior tibials
bilaterally.  The chest is clear to auscultation.  The heart
is regular rate and rhythm.  Abdominal examination is
unremarkable.  Rectal examination is stool guaiac negative.
Bone/joint examination is unremarkable.  The neurological
examination is unremarkable.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admitting laboratory data included a
complete blood count with a white count of 8.1, hematocrit of
28.6, platelet count 102,000.  Electrolytes, sodium 139,
potassium 5.4, chloride 100, carbon dioxide 25, BUN 47,
creatinine 2.1, glucose 76.  Chest x-ray was acute
cardiopulmonary disease.  The electrocardiogram showed a
sinus rhythm with a normal axis with premature ventricular
contractions and a right bundle branch block with probable
inferior infarct of undetermined age.  There were lateral ST
changes which offer additional evidence of ischemia.  There
is no change in this electrocardiogram from the previous
electrocardiogram of [**2169-6-8**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Vascular
Service.  She underwent an urgent arteriogram on [**2169-7-27**] which demonstrated a 95% right renal artery stenosis.
She had an aorto-bifemoral bypass graft with an automatic
implanted cardioverter defibrillator in the left lower
quadrant.  The distal runoff showed the left superficial
femoral artery native vessel totally occluded, there was no
flow through the graft.  The below-knee popliteal
reconstituted the graft distally, showed a patent
anastomosis.  The posterior tibial artery was with severe
narrowing with distal graft changes and marked stenosis.  The
patient was not given total parenteral alimentation and
intravenous heparin was begun.  She was transferred to the
Vascular Unit for continued monitoring and care.  A
noninvasive arterial study for graft duplex was done the
following morning which demonstrated that the distal half of
the graft was occluded.  Cardiology was requested to see the
patient in anticipation for graft revision giving her
significant cardiac history.  Because of the urgency of the
vascular procedure, the patient proceeded to surgery after
receiving 2 units of packed red blood cells for a hematocrit
of 22.5.  She underwent on [**2169-7-28**], a left
femoral-posterior tibial bypass with nonreverse lesser
saphenous vein.  She required 2 units of packed red blood
cells and 2 units of fresh frozen platelets intraoperatively.
She was transferred to the Post Anesthesia Care Unit in
stable condition.  Her hematocrit was 25.6.  Her clinical
status was stable.  She was begun on intravenous
nitroglycerin and Lopressor for systolic hypertension.  Her
intravenous fluids were decreased to 50 cc/hr.  She was
transferred to the Vascular Intensive Care Unit for continued
monitoring and care.  She required an additional transfusion
of 1 unit of packed red blood cells over the next 24 hours
and her intravenous Lopressor dose was increased.  After the
additional unit of packed cells her hematocrit was 27.9 from
22.5.  Her BUN was 29, creatinine 1.4 with a potassium of
4.2.  Her lung examination was unremarkable.  Abdominal
examination, she has soft, clean, dry incisions.  There were
no bowel sounds.  Her pulse examination showed bilateral
dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial on the right and absent
pedal pulse examination on the left.  Fluids are intravenous
heparin-blocked.  The patient was maintained in the Vascular
Intensive Care Unit.  She continued on her intravenous
Nitroglycerin, Coumadin was begun.  Postoperative day #2 her
nitroglycerin was weaned.  Her chest x-ray was negative for
pneumothorax.  She has received a total of three doses of
Lasix intravenously.  Her Lopressor was increased to 50 mg
b.i.d.  She ran a lowgrade temperature of 100 to defervesce
to 99.4.  Her white count remained stable at 4.4, hematocrit
stable at 27.4.  Her BUN was 21, creatinine 1.2 with a
potassium of 4.4.  The left leg showed some oozing at the
lesser saphenous vein site.  The dorsalis pedis was
dopplerable with a biphasic signal and the posterior tibial
was monophasic.  She was given Dilaudid for analgesic
control. Ambulation to chair was begun.  Her diet was
advanced as tolerated.  We continued Lasix to continue
diuresis and Lovenox was begun while awaiting therapeutic INR
levels.  She was transferred to the Regular Nursing Floor on
postoperative day #2.  On postoperative day #3 there were no
over night events.  She remained afebrile.  Her lungs were
clear to auscultation.  Her abdominal examination was
nontender, nondistended.  Her left leg showed a proximal
incision staining with sanguinous fluid.  Wounds were without
erythema and she had a triphasic dorsalis pedis and posterior
tibial on the left.  Ambulation was continued and Coumadin
was continued.

Her clinical condition remained stable on postoperative day
#4.  She was afebrile.  She underwent an arteriogram at that
time along with a renal artery angioplasty with stent
placement.  The graft was not visualized.  The patient
required an additional 2 units of packed red blood cells for
a drop in her hematocrit with additional Lasix.  Hematocrit
was 25.2 post transfusion of 2 units of red blood cells.  Her
hematocrit was 31 which has since remained stable.  The
patient was begun on Pletal 100 mg b.i.d. on postoperative
day #5 and 1 which was [**2169-8-2**].  Rehabilitation
screening was requested.  Cardiology was reque