Admission Date:  [**2184-7-10**]       Discharge Date:  [**2184-8-3**]


Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 70-year-old
female with a history of severe peripheral vascular disease,
known abdominal aortic aneurysm, peptic ulcer disease, and
hypertension, who presented to the [**Hospital **] Hospital on the
[**8-9**] with shortness of breath, throat
discomfort for two weeks, and increased shortness of breath
just before presentation.  The patient had a chest x-ray
which showed pulmonary edema bilaterally.  She was ruled in
for ischemia with electrocardiogram which showed ST
depression in V4 through V6.  She was ruled in for myocardial
infarction with troponin of 14.6 and CK/MB index of 60.  The
patient was given aspirin, dopamine drip, with pressure
support and was transported to [**Hospital1 188**] for workup.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Peripheral vascular disease status
post bilateral iliac stenting in [**1-31**], abdominal aortic
aneurysm increased from 3.5 cm to 3.9 cm over the past year,
hypertension, questionable peptic ulcer disease,
hyperlipidemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Bilateral iliac stent in [**1-31**], left
carotid endarterectomy (right carotid 70% stenosis).

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Tobacco four pack year history.  Denies ETOH
history.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

HOME MEDICATIONS:  Enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg once daily,
Lipitor 10 mg once daily, Toprol XL 25 mg once daily.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, temperature 98.2, blood
pressure 96/55, heart rate 105, respiratory rate 20, oxygen
saturation 95% on 6 liters.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat:  Mucous membranes moist, jugular venous pressure 6 to
8 cm, carotid bruits left more than right.  Chest:  Bilateral
rales anteriorly.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate, normal S1
and S2, no murmurs noted.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Extremities:  No palpable pulses on right
lower extremity, right popliteal pulse by Doppler only.
Right leg was warm and dry.  Left lower extremity 2+ femoral,
1+ dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial.

LABORATORY DATA:   On admission, white blood cells 17.7,
hematocrit 27.4, platelets 335.  Sodium 139, potassium 3.4,
chloride 99, bicarbonate 24, BUN 26, creatinine 1.4, glucose
106.  Magnesium 1.9.  PT 14.4, PTT 84.3, INR 1.4.  Troponin
more than 50, CK/MB 32, CPK 445.  Blood gas:  pH 7.44, PCO2
40, PAO2 64, bicarbonate 28.  Electrocardiogram:  ST
depressions in V4 through V6, sinus tachycardia at 106,
normal axis, normal intervals.  TTE monitored MR:
Anteroseptal akinesis, ejection fraction approximately 35%.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Coronary
Care Unit and started on dopamine and heparin drip.  Later on
that night, the patient was noted to have no pulses on both
lower extremities, and her extremities were cool.  Vascular
Surgery was consulted.  At that time, the patient was also
complaining of right lower extremity pain.  Her lower
extremities were noted to be a little bit cooler compared to
the day before.

On hospital day number two, the patient was taken to
Angiography, where she was found to have bilateral iliac
stent thrombosis which was opened by Interventional
Radiology.  Her coronary angiography showed right dominant
left main coronary, ostial 90% lesion with moderate to severe
calcification, left anterior descending moderate proximal
disease with good distal targets, D2 is a large vessel
without disease, the left circumflex is non-dominant, obtuse
marginal I is large without critical disease, right coronary
artery dominant vessel.  She was also noted to have a
moderate-sized abdominal aortic aneurysm with lumen size of
approximately 3 cm.

After angiography, intervention and catheterization, the
patient's feet warmed up.  Her dorsalis pedis and posterior
tibial were Dopplerable bilaterally.  Later that night, the
patient had two large melenas and coffee-ground emesis.
Nasogastric lavage later was found to be guaiac negative.
The patient was transfused four units for a falling
hematocrit, which improved after transfusion from 24 to 29.

On hospital day number three, no episodes of melena,
hematemesis overnight.  Cardiac Surgery was consulted.  It
was decided that the patient would be a surgical candidate
after stabilization.  Gastroenterology was consulted for the
patient's presumed upper gastrointestinal bleed, but
esophagogastroduodenoscopy was deferred due to patient's
unstable condition.  TTE was repeated with an ejection
fraction of approximately 20% and 3+ mitral regurgitation.
The patient was weaned off dobutamine.

Vascular Surgery continued following the patient, with the
conclusion that aortobifemoral may be performed after the
patient is stable and her cardiac issues are resolved.

On hospital day number four, the patient remained stable,
with no verbal complaints.  Esophagogastroduodenoscopy was
performed, which showed a 3 mm small venous plaque in the
proximal esophagus, small-sized hiatal hernia, scattered mild
petechiae throughout the mucosa of the stomach, a healing 7
mm ulcer with a clean base, without stigmata of recent
bleeding, deformed duodenal bulb without active inflammation.
The conclusion was made from esophagogastroduodenoscopy that
the bleeding was most likely from a healing ulcer that is now
seen in the body of the stomach.

On hospital day number five, the patient remained stable.
Gentle diuresis, off pressure support.  The patient was taken
to an operating room on [**2184-7-16**], where coronary artery
bypass graft x 3 was performed (saphenous vein graft to left
anterior descending, saphenous vein graft to right coronary
artery, saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal, MVR with #26
mm [**Doctor Last Name **] annuloplasty ring).  Three mediastinal tubes and
atrioventricular wires were placed intraoperatively.  The
patient was started on pressure support.  Surgery went
without complications, and the patient was transported to the
Post-Anesthesia Care Unit and CSRU intubated and in stable
condition.

On postoperative day number one, the patient was transfused
fresh frozen plasma, remained stable.  Lower extremity pulses
were Dopplerable bilaterally.  The patient had a low-grade
fever and was given four doses of vancomycin 1 gram every 12
hours.  The patient was stable, following commands.  She was
switched to CPAP.  She started developing episodes of atrial
fibrillation, which responded to intravenous amiodarone
boluses.

By postoperative day number three, the patient was in stable
atrial fibrillation on amiodarone, on CPAP, following
commands.  On postoperative day number four, the patient was
switched to oral amiodarone, diuresis.  The patient's
respiratory examination showed bilateral rhonchi.  She
underwent bronchoscopy on [**2184-7-21**], which showed moderate
secretions, which were suctioned.

On postoperative day number five, the patient was in stable
atrial fibrillation.  Heparin drip was started.  The patient
was extubated briefly, however, had to be reintubated for
distress.  On postoperative day number five, the patient was
showing 4+ gram-negative rods.  The patient was started on
Levaquin on postoperative day number three.

On postoperative day number six, the patient remained stable
on CPAP.  EPS was consulted for the patient's atrial
fibrillation.  She was found to be a poor candidate for
pacemaker placement at that time.  On the same day, the
patient had a left subclavian line placed for access, and
left chest tube was placed for left pleural effusion by chest
x-ray.

On postoperative day number eight, the patient was
successfully extubated.  On postoperative day number nine,
the patient remained stable off pressure support.  On
postoperative day number ten, the patient remained stable,
going in and out of atrial fibrillation.  On postoperative
day number 11, the patient remained stable, going in and out
of atrial fibrillation on heparin drip, amiodarone and
Lopressor boluses, which the patient responded poorly to.

On postoperative day number 12, the patient remained stable,
going in and out of atrial fibrillation, on heparin.  EPS was
reconsulted.  The patient would probably not be a good
pacemaker candid