Admission Date:  [**2171-8-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2171-9-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2109-9-5**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 410**] is a 61-year-old man
admitted from the emergency room to the cardiology service
with five hours of stuttering chest pain and transient
anterolateral ST changes.  Chest pain woke him from sleep on
the day of admission.  It was associated with shortness of
breath, no nausea, vomiting, or radiation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Asthma.  2. Hypercholesterolemia.
3. Benign prostatic hypertrophy.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:  1. Flovent.  2. Singulair.
3. Serevent.  4. Pravachol.  5. Terazosin.  6. Albuterol.  No
doses were provided.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  In the Emergency Department his
temperature was 98, heart rate 70, blood pressure 161/81,
respiratory rate 16, oxygen saturation 94% on room air.
Neck:  Supple.  HEENT:  Pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Lungs:
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Heart:  Regular rate and
rhythm, S1 and S2 with no murmur.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.

EKG showed changes in the anterior ST depressions.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was treated in the emergency
room with aspirin, sublingual nitroglycerin, IV Lopressor,
and heparin.  He was seen by the cardiology service and was
transferred from the emergency room directly to the Cardiac
Catheterization Laboratory.  The patient's catheterization
showed a preserved ejection fraction of 50%, trace MR, a left
main with an eccentric mid and distal lesion involving a
pinching of the left anterior descending coronary artery and
circumflex coronary artery at the origin, and left anterior
descending coronary artery with an 80% lesion in addition to
the lesion at the origin.  The left circumflex coronary
artery had a 70% lesion at the origin, and a large
nondominant right coronary artery.

Cardiothoracic surgery was consulted while the patient was in
the catheterization laboratory.  He was seen and taken
directly from the catheterization laboratory to the operating
room for coronary artery bypass grafting.  Once in the
operating room the anesthesia team was unable to intubate the
patient.  He underwent an emergency cricothyroidectomy with a
tracheostomy tube placement.  At that time he also had an
intra-aortic balloon pump placed.  Coronary artery bypass
grafting was delayed and he was transferred from the
operating room to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit.
Please see the operating room and the anesthesia notes for
full details.

Over the next several days the patient was followed closely.
He underwent flexible bronchoscopy at the bedside to evaluate
his airway and his pulmonary status.  On [**2171-8-26**] he returned
to the operating room at which time he underwent coronary
artery bypass grafting x 4.  Please see the operating room
report for full details.  In summary, he had a CABG x 4 with
left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending
coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to diagonal, saphenous
vein graft to obtuse marginal #1, and saphenous vein graft to
obtuse marginal #2.  He tolerated the surgery well and was
transferred from the operating room to the cardiothoracic
intensive care unit.  Please see the operating room report
for full details.

On arrival to the cardiac surgery recovery unit the patient
was noted to be in atrial fibrillation.  He was treated with
IV amiodarone.  He remained hemodynamically stable however he
did require a Neo-Synephrine infusion to maintain an adequate
blood pressure.  On the morning of postoperative day one the
patient remained hemodynamically stable.  At that time his
intra-aortic balloon pump was discontinued.  He was weaned
from his Neo-Synephrine drip.  Sedation was discontinued and
he was weaned from mechanical ventilation to pressure support
ventilation.

On postoperative day two the patient's tracheostomy was
downsized to a #4 Shiley.  During this time he was also seen
by the cardiology service for his persistent atrial
fibrillation, and by the speech and swallow service for
swallow evaluation and fitting for a Passy-Muir valve.

Over the next couple of days the patient continued to
progress well.  He was weaned from all cardioactive IV
medications and placed on oral medications.  Additionally, he
was started on levofloxacin for increasing pulmonary
secretions.

Over the next several days the patient continued to stay in
the cardiothoracic intensive care unit to monitor his
respiratory status as well as his cardiac status.  He
continued to remain hemodynamically stable although he did
have periods of rapid atrial fibrillation with a ventricular
response rate up to 120.  From a respiratory standpoint he
weaned from his pressure support and was tolerating trach
mask with intermittent period of Passy-Muir valve in place.
He had started on an oral diet and tolerated that well.  His
activity level was increased on a daily basis with the
assistance of the nursing staff and physical therapy.

On postoperative day seven the patient was transferred from
the cardiothoracic intensive care unit to [**Hospital Ward Name 121**] 2 for
continuing postoperative care and cardiac rehabilitation.

On postoperative day nine the patient was noted to have
sternal drainage.  He was transferred from the floor back to
the cardiothoracic intensive care unit for closer monitoring
and then ultimately brought to the operating room where his
sternum was reexplored and he underwent debridement and
rewiring with a Robachek weave.  Prior to his reexploration
and rewiring, the patient's trach was replaced with a #8
Shiley.  The patient tolerated this operation well.  Please
see the operating room report for full details.

Following the surgery he was transferred from the operating
room to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit.  On
postoperative day one the patient continued to have
additional episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation with a heart
rate in the 120s.  He remained hemodynamically stable during
that period.  He was again treated with IV Lopressor and
amiodarone, after which we achieved rate control.  Following
surgery the patient was again weaned from his anesthesia and
sedation and from the ventilator.  On postoperative day one
he was back to a trach collar, was reassessed for a
Passy-Muir valve, and tolerated that well.  On postoperative
day two following his reexploration, the patient was again
transferred from the cardiothoracic intensive care unit to
[**Hospital Ward Name 121**] 2 for continuing postoperative care and cardiac
rehabilitation.  The patient remained hemodynamically stable
over the next several days.  His sternal incision remained
dry until [**2171-9-10**] when he was noted to have a small amount
of serosanguinous drainage from his mid incision line.  A
chest x-ray done at that time showed a small left pleural
effusion with some right and left lower lobe atelectasis with
all sternal wires intact.  The patient continued to drain
from his mid sternal incision.  On [**2171-9-11**] he was brought
for a chest CT that showed multiple intact sternal wires with
no fluid collection, no sternal dehiscence, and mild heart
failure.

Over the next several days the patient's sternal drainage
continued to be closely followed.  His incision remained free
of erythema, and his vital signs remained stable.

On postoperative day 18 it was decided that the patient was
stable and ready to be transferred to rehabilitation for
continuing postoperative care.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON TRANSFER:  Vital signs were
temperature 99, heart rate 82 and sinus rhythm, blood
pressure 100/49, respiratory rate 18, oxygen saturation 97%
on trach collar with mist.  Weight preoperatively was 88.5
kg; at discharge is 82.4 kg.  Neurologic examination showed
him to be alert and oriented x 3, moving all extremities,
following commands.  Lungs:  #6 Shiley trach in place.
Breath sounds clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiac:
Regular rate and rhythm, S1 and S2, sternum with staples, no
erythema, small mid incision area with serous draina