Admission Date:  [**2152-3-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2152-3-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2078-9-11**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Acute myocardial infarction status post
stent at outside hospital.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73 year old
female with cardiac risk factors of hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, age and diabetes, without prior history
of cardiac events, transferred from [**Hospital3 **] Hospital.  Per
the patient's husband, she began having nausea, vomiting and
substernal chest pain at rest, which would come and go on the
day prior to admission, beginning at 11:00 a.m.  The patient
presented to Long [**Hospital **] Hospital where the pain was relieved
by two sublingual nitroglycerin.  The patient was given a
prescription for sublingual nitroglycerin as well as several
tablets and sent home.

Per the patient's husband she continued to have some nausea
and diaphoresis, but did not complain of chest pain or
shortness of breath that evening.  The patient went to bed
and awoke at approximately 1:00 a.m. per her husband's
description, with her hands on her chest, unable to speak,
vomited times one.  The EMS transported the patient to [**Hospital3 15516**] Hospital.  In the emergency department at [**Hospital3 **]
systolic blood pressure was in the 80 range, thought
consistent with cardiogenic shock.

The patient was taken emergently to the catheterization
laboratory where percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty and stenting was performed for a totally occluded
proximal left anterior descending.  In addition, there was
noted an occlusion of the right coronary artery, but with
adequate collaterals.  The patient had an asystolic episode
versus complete heart block in the catheterization
laboratory.  She was given atropine and a temporary pacing
wire was placed.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was also
placed and the patient was on dopamine and also intubated for
airway protection.

She was transferred to the [**Hospital1 188**] accompanied by her physician for further management,
including possible coronary artery bypass graft evaluation.
On arrival the patient had been on Repro since approximately
2:00 a.m. with some ooze from the femoral site. The paced
sire was not sensing, but was pacing adequately.  However,
the patient was not noted to have any arrhythmias.  She had a
couple episodes of bradycardia, with a question of second
degree AV block.  Her initial CK at [**Hospital3 **] Hospital was
525.

Per the patient's family she had no history of chest pain or
chest pressure, no edema, no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, no
history of gastrointestinal bleed or ulcer.  She has never
had a colonoscopy.  Per family her diabetes and cholesterol
were well controlled and she no longer had been requiring
blood pressure medications of late.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Hypercholesterolemia.
3.  Hypothyroid.
4.  Type II diabetes, controlled with oral agents.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
Lescol 20 mg q.d.
Levoxyl 0.175 mg q.d.
Avandia 4 mg q.d.

ALLERGIES:  There were no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her husband and is
retired, does not smoke or drink alcohol and has four
children nearby.  The patient is a full code.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On examination the patient was
afebrile.  Systolic blood pressure was 80 to 120 over 40 to
60, pulse 90 to 110 on dopamine at 3 to 5 mcg per minute,
respiratory rate was 10 to 12 and oxygen saturation was 97%
and 99% on a 40% FIO2 mechanical ventilation.  The patient
was sedated, but responds to voice and followed commands.
Sclera were anicteric.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive
to light and accommodation, neck was without jugulovenous
distension.  The chest was with few bibasilar crackles.
Cardiovascular examination was S1, S2 with audible S3, no
murmurs or rubs.  The abdomen showed bowel sounds present,
nontender, nondistended.  Upper extremities were warm.  Lower
extremities were slightly cool, pulses were Doppler, no
edema.  Neurologically the pupils were reactive.  The patient
follows commands and all extremities and reflexes were
intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count was 10.4, hematocrit
30.1, platelet count 210. Sodium was 137, potassium 4.1,
chloride 107, bicarbonate 17, BUN 21, creatinine 1.0.  CK was
5730 with an MB of 114, index of 2.0, several hours later
index had gone to 8.0.  Coagulation, PTT was 50.9, INR was
1.2.  Electrocardiogram at the outside hospital showed a
right bundle branch pattern, left axis deviation and ST
depressions in II, III and AVF, ST elevations in L and V1
through V6 with hyperacute T waves laterally.

Electrocardiogram on arrival showed sinus bradycardia at
approximately 60, left axis deviation, right bundle branch
block, Q waves in V1 through V3 and ST elevations in V1
through V4.  Chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly.  ETT and
balloon pump were in place.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the CCU.
Dopamine drip was weaned.

1.  Cardiovascular:  Catheterization studies were reviewed
and it was determined the patient did not require further
intervention or surgery at that time.  Dopamine was weaned
gradually and replaced with dobutamine, titrated upwards in
order to improve the peripheral perfusion on intra-aortic
balloon pump.  Repro was discontinued approximately twelve
hours later and the patient was started on heparin per
sliding scale, given the presence of the balloon pump.  The
patient was successfully extubated on the day following
admission with additional weaning and was able to have
successful weaning of the balloon pump and dobutamine the day
after that.

Aspirin and lasix were continued.  Cholesterol levels were
checked and were within normal limits on the patient's
cholesterol lowering medications.  The patient began to show
signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure, requiring
lasix.  In addition, echocardiogram showed severe left
ventricular hypokinesis of the apical wall anterolaterally,
with depressed ejection fraction.

She was also begun on Captopril, which was titrated upward to
25 three times a day, and ultimately changed to Zestril 10 mg
daily.  Blood pressure would not tolerated more than 12.5
twice a day of Lopressor, but this can continue to be
adjusted as an outpatient.  The patient was also loaded on
Coumadin after discontinuation of intra-aortic balloon pump,
given the severe hypokinesis and the need for long term
anticoagulation.

At the time of discharge heparin will be changed to Lovenox
and the patient will continue to require Coumadin loading at
7.5 mg at hour of sleep.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient was easily and successfully
extubated.  Oxygen was weaned to room air by the date of
discharge and the patient settled to where she eventually
required 20 to 40 mg of lasix by mouth daily, continued
titration may be necessary.

3.  Renal:  Creatinine remained stable throughout admission.

4.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was noted to have some
scant coffee grounds at the time of admission.  This was
attributed to stress gastritis, also in the setting of her
anticoagulation.  She was placed on Zantac prophylactically
and high dose Prilosec once taking by mouth medications, with
stabilization of her hematocrit and no further evidence of
bleeding.  Prilosec was discontinued prior to discharge.

5.  Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition: The patient was able
to take by mouth.  She did not require potassium repletion
while in the hospital, however potassium should be checked as
an outpatient and repletion added to her medical regimen if
needed.

6.  Hematology:  The patient will require prolonged
anticoagulation, secondary to severe focal hypokinesis of the
septum, apex and the left ventricle, as well as reduced
ejection fraction.  INR was subtherapeutic at the time of
discharge so Coumadin loading will continue at 7.5 mg at hour
of sleep until the INR is in its goal of 2.0 to 2.5.  The
patient will continue on subcutaneous Lovenox injections at
the time of discharge until INR is therapeutic.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient will be discharged to an acute
rehabilitation center.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNO