Admission Date: [**2128-1-7**]        Discharge Date: [**2128-1-13**]

Date of Birth:  [**2068-2-16**]        Sex:  M

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Right calf claudication.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 59-year-old gentleman
who has had right leg symptoms for years. The pain is noted
to be in both legs. He has had a left lower extremity bypass
graft in [**Location (un) 5450**], [**Location (un) 3844**] in [**2120**]. He is here now
after being evaluated for right leg SFA tibial disease for
elective revascularization by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**].

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive for mild nausea over the last 3
weeks. No fever or chills.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin, ibuprofen, Skelaxin, Flagyl,
morphine, Zestril, lecithin, zolpidem.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lopid 1200 mg daily, atenolol 100
mg daily, clonidine 0.4 mg daily, Plavix 75 mg daily, aspirin
81 mg daily, Actos 45 mg daily, Lasix 20 mg daily, Vytorin
[**10-9**] daily, Lantus insulin, Zyprexa, mirtazapine and
Combivent p.r.n.

ILLNESSES:  Include peripheral vascular disease, history of
chronic pancreatitis with pancreatic mass status post
resection with splenectomy, history of alcohol abuse--former,
history of depression, history of hypercholesteremia, history
of coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction
x2 in [**2125-8-22**] associated with congestive heart
failure, ejection fraction 25%, status post left main trunk
stenting in [**2125-8-22**], history of MRSA pneumonia--
treated, history of C. diff--treated, history of GERD,
history of carotid artery disease status post left carotid
endarterectomy.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs: 99, 66, 18, blood
pressure 140/80, O2 sat 96% on room air, fingerstick glucose
149 on admission. General appearance is a gentleman in no
acute distress but anxious. Lungs are clear to auscultation.
Heart is a regular rate and rhythm but faint on auscultation
secondary to increased AP diameter. Abdominal exam was
unremarkable. Pulse exam shows that the left DP is
dopplerable. The PT is absent. On the right, the DP and PT
are absent both by palpation and Doppler.

ADMITTING LABS:  White count was 12.3, hematocrit 39.7,
platelets 472, INR 0.9, BUN 23, creatinine 2.6. Urinalysis
was negative. EKG showed a normal sinus rhythm with normal
axis, with ventricular couplets and first degree AV block.
Chest x-ray was without failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the vascular
service in preparation for elective surgery. The patient was
quite anxious and confused overnight secondary to
administration of Ativan after discussing it with the wife
and husband. The patient is very sensitive to Ativan and
hallucinates. Ativan was discontinued with improvement in the
patient's sensorium. The patient has a history of alcohol use
in the past but has not been active with alcohol over the
last 25 years. The patient was given a nicotine patch for his
history of tobacco dependence.

The patient proceeded to surgery on [**2128-1-8**]. He
underwent an in situ saphenous vein graft to the right
femoral artery to anterior tibial bypass. He tolerated the
procedure well. He was transferred to the PACU in stable
condition. He remained hemodynamically stable, and his postop
chest x-ray was without pneumothorax. The patient continued
to do well. His EKG was without changes. His CK-MBs were
unremarkable. His troponins were 0.02. The patient does have
chronic renal insufficiency. His hematocrit was 27. He was
given 1 unit of packed red blood cells. He was transferred to
the regular VICU for continued monitoring and care.

Postoperative day 1, there were no overnight events. The
patient was delined. The diet was advanced as tolerated. He
was maintained on bedrest and stayed in the VICU.
Postoperative day 2, he continued to tolerate his P.O.'s, low-
grade temperature of 100.6 to 98.6, hematocrit was 25.2.
Hematology was consulted. They felt that this was an iron
deficiency anemia and recommended iron repletion, which he
was placed on iron tablets 325 one to two tablets daily. The
patient diuresed 1 liter self-diuresis.

He was evaluated by physical therapy on postoperative day #3.
His vancomycin was discontinued. His Dilaudid was increased
for improvement in his analgesic control. Physical therapy
felt that the patient could be discharged to home with
continued PT at home and home safety evaluation. The patient
was discharged to home in stable condition on [**2128-1-13**].

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Right leg claudication, status post right femoral-
    anterior tibial in situ saphenous vein graft.
2.  Preoperative delirium secondary to Ativan, resolved.
3.  Anxiety secondary to tobacco dependence, resolved.
4.  Postoperative blood loss anemia--transfused.
5.  Chronic iron deficiency anemia, started on iron.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient may ambulate essential
distances. He should keep his right leg elevated when sitting
in a chair. He may shower but no tub baths. No driving until
seen in follow-up. He should continue the nitro patches for
smoking cessation, and he has been instructed and warned
about smoking and wearing a patch. This could be fatal. He
understands this. He should call our office in 2 weeks time
for follow-up appointment. If the skin clip areas develop
redness, drainage or swelling, or he develops a fever greater
than 101.5, he should notify Dr.[**Name (NI) 1392**] office.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Nicotine 14 mg/24h patch daily,
gabapentin 800 mg t.i.d., gemfibrozil 600 mg b.i.d.,
clonidine 0.1 mg tablets at bedtime, Plavix 75 mg daily,
pioglitazone 45 mg daily, Lasix 40 mg daily, mirtazapine 15
mg at bedtime, Colace 100 mg b.i.d., Vytorin 10/40 mg tablets
1 daily, olanzapine 2.5 mg at bedtime p.r.n., glargine 10
U/D, Humalog insulin before meals as directed, atenolol 100
mg daily, hydromorphone 2 mg tablets [**12-23**] q.2-4h. p.r.n. for
pain, iron 325 mg tablets daily.


                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2380**], [**MD Number(1) 2381**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2382**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2128-1-13**] 09:54:22
T:  [**2128-1-13**] 11:16:36
Job#:  [**Job Number 55372**]
