Admission Date:  [**2151-12-18**]       Discharge Date:  [**2152-1-16**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

ADDENDUM TO HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Neurology:  The patient was initially on significant
amount of sedation as he often had episodes of significant
agitation which caused his ventilation to be impaired.  He
was started on a propofol drip on [**12-27**], which was
continued until [**12-29**], and was then weaned down so that
we could obtain a better neurological evaluation.  There was
not a significant improvement off the sedation.  At one
point, he was able to follow commands.  He was evaluated by
the Neurology consult service, who obtained an
electroencephalogram which showed diffuse encephalopathic
pattern consistent with either medication effect or toxic
metabolic pattern.  He underwent a head CT on [**2152-1-7**], which showed no intracranial hemorrhage or major
vasculature territory infarction.  White matter microvascular
disease and basal ganglia lacunes which are unchanged from
prior study done on [**12-24**].  Air fluid level in the
sphenoid sinus suggesting acute sinusitis.  Overall, given
the picture of minimal responsiveness on sedation and the
fact that he had several episodes of hypotension as well as
one episode of ventricular fibrillation arrest followed by
PEA arrest, the prognosis was deemed fairly grim, with little
chance of meaningful neurological recovery.

Post-tracheostomy placement on [**1-3**], the sedation was
gradually weaned, and the patient was changed over to a
fentanyl drip, and this was gradually weaned as well.  After
discontinuation of sedation, mental status did continue to
improve somewhat, to the point where he was consistently
responding to commands, opening eyes to verbal stimuli,
however, at the time of his discharge, it is still unclear
how significant his neurological recovery has been, and how
significant it will continue to be.

Repeat electroencephalogram done on [**2152-1-8**], showed
moderately slow background with bursts of additional delta
frequency slowing.  The electroencephalogram did not vary
significantly during the recording, which features tend to
suggest a poor prognosis.  No electroencephalogram seizures
were recorded during the tracing.

2.  Cardiovascular:  From a coronary standpoint, the patient
continued to require pressors, with Levophed being used from
[**12-27**] until cardiac catheterization on [**2151-12-29**], at which point the patient underwent cardiac
catheterization with intervention of the left anterior
descending, D1 lesion as well as stenting of the left
anterior descending.  He was then continued on aspirin and
Plavix, Integrilin post-procedure, and changed over to a
dopamine drip for pressor support.

From a pump standpoint, the patient was initially
significantly volume overloaded as well as having elevated
pulmonary capillary wedge pressures, and we were able to
diurese only on significant amount of pressor support with
dopamine and low cardiac output and index.  By [**1-1**],
we were able to wean the dopamine significantly, as well as
aggressively diurese, aiming for a goal negative of about 1
liter per day.  Over the next week, he was diuresed nearly 5
liters, with pulmonary capillary wedge pressures being
brought below 20.  The PA catheter was then removed, with
monitoring only of the CVP.  After this point, the CVPs
continued to range below 10, and diuresis was slowed, with a
goal of net fluid balance, with stable CVPs.  Overall
ejection fraction is still likely severely depressed.  Last
echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 35 to 40% on
[**2151-12-28**].

From a rhythm standpoint, the patient was consistently in and
out of atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter and normal sinus
rhythm.  Amiodarone was used for possible pharmacological
cardioversion,  however, this was not successful.  An attempt
was made at electrical cardioversion on [**1-9**], however,
this was also unsuccessful, with return to atrial
fibrillation within several seconds.  The decision was made
to rate control with metoprolol and Digoxin, and discontinue
the amiodarone, as the patient seemed to be tolerating atrial
fibrillation without rapid ventricular response.
Anticoagulation was started with heparin, which is being
changed over to Coumadin.

3.  Pulmonary:  The patient was noted to be difficult to wean
from the ventilator on pressor support, as a decreased in
sedation made it difficult for him to breathe on the
ventilator.  The decision was made to perform a tracheostomy,
which was done on [**2152-1-4**], by Interventional
Pulmonology.  Post-tracheostomy placement, he was changed
over to pressor support with minimal sedation being given.
This was well tolerated, and the pressor support was
gradually weaned down until, on [**1-10**], a trial of
tracheal mask was well tolerated and, throughout the day on
[**1-12**], was placed on tracheal mask with adequate
oxygenation as well as ventilation.  Overnight, he was put
back on pressor support due to hypoxia.

The following day, he was placed back on the tracheal mask,
which was well tolerated throughout the day, as well as the
following day, with no need for return to the ventilator.
The tracheostomy course was complicated by bleeding from the
tracheostomy site.  Heparin was discontinued briefly, and
lidocaine and epinephrine were injected into the tracheal
site, and the bleeding stopped.  Bronchoscopy was performed
on [**2152-1-10**], by Interventional Pulmonology, which
showed no evidence of active bleeding around the tracheostomy
site, however, there was some mucosal irritation that was
likely unmasked with heparin, and after the heparin was held
for one day, it was restarted and there was no further
evidence of bleeding from the tracheostomy site, and no
bleeding from endotracheal suctioning.

4.  Infectious Disease:  Initially it was unclear if the
patient had septic physiology that was contributing to the
low arterial pressures, and was empirically treated with
levofloxacin, Flagyl, and vancomycin.  However, the patient
continued to spike fevers and developed a consolidation on
chest x-ray.  The concern was for ventilator-associated
pneumonia with empiric coverage for pseudomonas with Zosyn,
which was started on [**12-29**] and was treated with a two
week course of Zosyn.  There were no further episodes of
spiking fevers.  White blood count was stable, and
antibiotics were discontinued on [**2152-1-12**].  Blood
cultures as well as sputum cultures were consistently showing
no growth of organisms.  At the time of this dictation, there
is no evidence of any ongoing infection.

5.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was initially started on
tube feeds, which were continued throughout his hospital
stay, and were continued through an orogastric tube.  On
[**2152-1-14**], the Gastroenterology service was able to
place a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube without
complications, and tube feeds were then switched over to
being given through the gastrostomy tube.

6.  Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  Throughout his
hospital stay, electrolytes were repleted as needed.  There
was a brief period of hypernatremia starting on [**2152-1-12**], which was corrected with free water boluses through the
orogastric tube, with normalization of sodium.  Potassium was
repleted as needed for hypokalemia, likely due to lasix
dosing.

7.  Renal:  Early in the hospital course, there were
significant episodes of hypotension, likely causing some
degree of acute renal failure and possibly some acute tubular
necrosis.  However, this resolved over the next several days,
and creatinines remained fairly stable throughout the
hospital stay, ranging from 1.0 to 1.5.

8.  Prophylaxis:  The patient has been on intravenous
heparin, which will be changed over to Coumadin, and is on a
proton pump inhibitor as well as tube feed diet.

9.  Code status:  The patient was initially full code.  After
discussion with all of his family members, which are his
brothers and his sisters, it was determined that he would be
made Do Not Resuscitate, however, given the fact that he is
already trached, there is not a Do Not Intubate along with
this Do N