Admission Date:  [**2117-1-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2117-1-18**]


Service:  Medicine, [**Hospital1 **] Firm

Dictating for:  [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This patient is an 81-year-old
male resident of [**Hospital 38393**] Nursing Home who presented to the
Emergency Department on [**2117-1-6**] status post a fall
with increasing confusion.

The patient was recently discharged from [**Hospital1 346**] after a 2-week stay with
nonconvulsive status and a question of herpes simplex virus
encephalitis, now status post therapy with two weeks of
Valacyclovir.

On the day of admission, he had increased agitation, change
in mental status, and headaches after being found on the
floor in the morning on the day of admission.  He was also
found with stool incontinence.

In the Emergency Department, he had a negative head computed
tomography, urinalysis with a possible urinary tract
infection, with a negative culture to date, and was
hypertensive.  Therefore, he was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  He was on Levophed for one day.  He was
treated first with ceftriaxone and then vancomycin
intravenously.  Subsequently, his stool was positive for
Clostridium difficile.  A urine culture was negative.
Therefore, he was on Flagyl intravenously and vancomycin by
mouth.  The patient also had an abdominal computed tomography
demonstrating pan-colitis as well as a 5-cm X 4-cm abdominal
aortic aneurysm.

On transfer to the Medicine Service, the patient was off
pressors.  He was still with questionable mental status
changes and with worsening delirium at night.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Question herpes simplex virus encephalitis an
nonconvulsive status epilepticus.
 2.  History of a seizure disorder.
 3.  Hypertension.
 4.  Orthostatic hypotension.
 5.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction with right coronary artery stent in [**2114**].
 6.  Congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of
30%).
 7.  Polymyalgia rheumatica.
 8.  History of temporal arteritis.
 9.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
10.  History of anemia; guaiac-positive.
11.  History of Clostridium difficile colitis.
12.  Status post lumbar spine fusion.
13.  Dementia.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has allergies to DILANTIN as well as
INTRAVENOUS CONTRAST.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  (To the Medicine floor were)
 1.  Trazodone 12.5 mg by mouth at hour of sleep.
 2.  Vancomycin 125 mg by mouth q.6h.
 3.  Flagyl 500 mg intravenously q.8h.
 4.  Metoprolol 50 mg by mouth three times per day.
 5.  Morphine as needed.
 6.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Haldol as needed.
 8.  Tylenol.
 9.  Subcutaneous heparin 5000 units subcutaneously three
times per day.
10.  Carbamazepine 200 mg twice per day and 400 mg once per
day.
11.  .................... 0.1 mg by mouth once per day.
12.  Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once per day.
13.  Lansoprazole 30 mg by mouth once per day.
14.  Keppra 1 gram by mouth twice per day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient does live in a nursing home.
His wife past away in the last couple of years.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's vital
signs were stable.  He was afebrile on transfer.  On
examination, the patient was alert and oriented to name only;
not to place or date.  He had trouble maintaining his level
of alertness, closing his eyes and dosing off during
examination.  The patient was in no acute distress.  He was
wearing a Venti mask with humidified oxygen.  His heart was
regular in rate and rhythm.  The lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally; only on anterior examination.  His
abdominal examination revealed the abdomen was soft and
nontender.  No hepatosplenomegaly.  There was a mile
erythematous rash over the lower torso.  There was lower
extremity edema.  The pulses were 2+ bilaterally on the upper
and lower extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  On transfer to
the Medicine floor, the patient had a white blood cell count
of 13.2 (down from 23.1), still with 10% bands, a platelet
count of 91, and his hematocrit was 32.3.  On chemistries,
the patient had a potassium of 3.3.  Other chemistries were
normal.  He had no increased anion gap.  Other laboratory
values were normal.  The patient had a blood gas
demonstrating a pH of 7.44, a PCO2 of 28, and PO2 of 70, and
a bicarbonate of 20.  Recent cultures showed negative stool
cultures but positive Clostridium difficile toxin, negative
blood cultures, and negative urine cultures.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  For the Clostridium
difficile colitis, the patient was maintained on Flagyl
intravenous as well as vancomycin by mouth four times per
day.  The intent was to stop the Flagyl intravenously and
decrease the vancomycin to twice per day after a full 2-week
course of the four times per day.  However, the patient
developed further infectious during his hospitalization and
was therefore kept on the Flagyl intravenously and the
vancomycin four times per day until after these other
infections have resolved and then will continue the four
times per day course for a total of two weeks and then remain
on a twice per day course until his followup with
Gastroenterology (as has been arranged).

The patient's mental status waxed and waned throughout his
hospital course.  He had bad reactions, as far as his mental
status goes, to medications such as Zyprexa as well as all
other sedation.  Therefore, all other medications including
narcotics and antipsychotics were discontinued except for
Haldol on an as-needed basis.  The patient's mental status
did improve throughout the course of his hospitalization;
mostly, we believe, in response to treatment of his
underlying infections; namely the Clostridium difficile
colitis as well as what was diagnosed as an epididymitis, as
the patient had a urinalysis indicative of a urinary tract
infection without any positive cultures and then had noted
some scrotal tenderness.  Therefore, an ultrasound was
obtained which showed a right epididymitis.  Therefore, the
patient was started on ciprofloxacin twice per day for a
total of a 10-day to 14-day course.   It should be noted that
the patient should continue on the treatment for the
Clostridium difficile colitis for a total of two weeks of the
vancomycin four times per day starting to number the days
again after the discontinuation of the ciprofloxacin; as per
the Infectious Disease team in consultation.

The patient did have further leukocytosis toward the end of
his hospitalization, but no other source of infection was
identified.  The patient did have what was believed to be
colonization with vancomycin-resistant enterococcus in his
urine; although, he never had any increase in symptoms, fever
spikes, or altered mental status after the appropriate
treatment for the epididymitis and the Clostridium difficile
colitis.  Therefore, the vancomycin-resistant enterococcus
was likely colonization.

From a cardiovascular standpoint, the patient remained stable
with an ejection fraction of 30%.  He was continued on the
medications for his congestive heart failure as well as for
coronary artery disease; being metoprolol, aspirin, and a
statin.  The ACE inhibitor was restarted for the congestive
heart failure.

From a fluids/electrolytes/nutrition standpoint, the patient
was on total parenteral nutrition as he was taking poor oral
intake due to his altered mental status.  Toward the end of
his hospitalization, the patient's mental status drastically
improved enabling him to take adequate oral intake.
Therefore, at the time of this dictation, the total
parenteral nutrition was being weaned with the intention to
be discontinued before the patient was discharged to a
skilled nursing facility.

NOTE:  The rest of this Discharge Summary dictation will be
included in an Addendum as the patient is discharged to a
skilled nursing facility.  It should be noted at this time,
that the patient should have followup with Gastroenterology
as has been arranged and was to follow up with his primary
care physician (Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] which will be arranged by Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] himself.  At this time, the plan is to discharge