Admission Date:  [**2155-3-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2155-3-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2106-10-1**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name 1181**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 48-year-old
male with a history of Crohn's disease, short gut, and
multiple line infections.  The patient was in his usual state
of health until that week prior to admission when he began
having frontal headaches and myalgias.  For the last two days
prior to admission, the patient had increasing shortness of
breath first with exertion and then finally also at rest.
The patient also complains of orthopnea, but no PND.  He
denies cough, fevers, but does have chills.  No chest pain,
no palpitations.  No tenderness or erythema at his
Port-A-Cath sites.  He says his ostomy output is normal.  No
melena, no bright red blood, and states that his son has had
a viral illness the last two weeks.

The patient presented to [**Hospital6 33**] on the date of
admission.  Had a chest x-ray read as being consistent with
mild heart failure.  Got 20 of IV Lasix with 2 liters of
urine output.  Had a CTA which was of suboptimal quality
showing no evidence of pulmonary embolus.  Patient also
states he has had lower back pain for one week, and no relief
with Tylenol.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Crohn's disease.
2. Status post proctocolectomy.
3. Short gut syndrome.
4. History or methicillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus
line infection.
5. History of septic emboli to the lungs in [**2151**] and again in
[**2154-10-27**].
6. Status post cholecystectomy.
7. Status post parathyroidectomy.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1. Imodium.
2. 6MP.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  Works at [**Hospital6 3622**].  No tobacco, no alcohol.  Is an active
runner.

FAMILY HISTORY:  No history of Crohn's.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, the patient's
temperature was 100.0, pulse is 90, blood pressure 89/45,
breathing at 30x a minute, and sating 98% on room air.
Generally, he was ill appearing but alert and oriented times
three.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to
light.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Conjunctivae were
slightly icteric.  Neck:  Jugular venous pressure was about 7
cm.  Neck was supple.  Chest has crackles at the bases
bilaterally.  Port-A-Cath site in the left chest was clean,
no fluctuance or tenderness around the site of the catheter.
Cardiovascular examination was regular rate, no murmurs.
Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended.  Ostomy was in
place.  There is no hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities:  No
edema.  Skin:  There is no evidence of splinter hemorrhages,
no rash, no evidence of Osler nodes or other embolic
phenomenon.  Back had no spinal or paraspinal tenderness.

LABORATORIES:  On admission, the patient's laboratories were
notable for a BUN of 25 and creatinine of 1.4 which is
elevated from the patient's normal baseline of 0.8 to 1.0.
Patient had a white count of 10 with differential of 66
neutrophils and 26 bands, hematocrit of 36.8 and platelets of
70.  His INR was 1.2.  PTT 30.8.  First set of cardiac
enzymes:  CK of 50, troponin of less than 0.3.

Electrocardiogram was notable for sinus at 85 with a normal
axis, normal P-R, QTC, and QRS intervals, no ST-T changes.

In short, this is a 48-year-old male with a history of
Crohn's and recurrent line infections complicated by septic
emboli, who recently completed a course of oxacillin in
[**12-29**], who now presents with shortness of breath.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Infectious Disease:  Patient clearly infected on admission
without evidence of clear source.  Blood cultures were drawn
at the time of admission from both ports of his Port-A-Cath
as well as from the periphery.  After transfer to the floor,
the patient became increasingly hypotensive requiring fluid
bolusing to maintain blood pressure in the 70s.  Patient
received a total of 4 liters of fluid on the floor, and at
which time he had begun to desaturate and require oxygen.
Thus, he was started on dopamine and transferred to the MICU.

Patient's cardiovascular course will be discussed below.
Patient was covered initially with levofloxacin and
Vancomycin.  He also received one dose of ceftriaxone 2 grams
IV for concern of meningitis.  On the morning after admission
to the MICU, the patient's blood cultures were positive with
gram-positive cocci in pairs and clusters.  These were
subsequently identified as being methicillin-sensitive
Staphylococcus aureus.  The patient was treated with
oxacillin and gentamicin for synergy.  Gentamicin was stopped
after three days.

The most likely source of the patient's infection was his
Port-A-Cath.  Thus this was removed while in the MICU without
event.  Culture tip was positive for methicillin-sensitive
Staphylococcus aureus greater than 15 colonies.

Over the next several days following admission to the MICU,
the patient's chest x-ray showed evidence of infiltrate.  The
patient was started on levofloxacin for possible community
acquired pneumonia.  Further review of chest x-ray revealed
that these infiltrates are most likely consistent with septic
emboli.  However, CT scan of his chest was done to better
visualize his lung parenchyma.  CT scan suggested areas of
cavitation consistent with septic emboli as well as areas of
more diffuse consolidation consistent with bacterial
superinfection.  Thus, the patient was continued on a 10 day
course of levofloxacin.

The patient's blood cultures were clear three days after
starting antibiotics.  However, he continued to spike fevers
for several days.  At the time of discharge, the patient had
been afebrile for greater than 48 hours.  The patient was
evaluated by the Infectious Disease consultation service
while hospitalized.  The patient had a negative transthoracic
echocardiogram as well as a negative transesophageal
echocardiogram to rule out endocarditis.  The patient also
had a MRI of his spine.  There was a questionable signal
abnormality at S3, however, no surrounding changes in the
bone.  Thus, the patient underwent a tagged white blood cell
scan, which showed no evidence of increased that might be seen
with infection.  The patient will follow up with the
Infectious Disease Clinic and continue a six week course of
oxacillin for treatment of his bacteremia/septicemia.

2. Cardiovascular:  Patient became hypotensive as noted above
shortly after admission to the floor.  Hypotension was
somewhat responsive to fluid bolusing on the floor.  However,
the patient had increasing oxygen needs, thus he was started
on dopamine and transferred to the MICU.  Once in the MICU,
dopamine was weaned quickly, and patient was aggressively
fluid resuscitated.  The likely etiology of this patient's
hemodynamic compromise due to sepsis and bacteremia.  The
patient remained normotensive throughout the rest of his
hospital course.

As noted above, the patient had negative workup for
endocarditis.  His echocardiogram showed no evidence of
valvular abnormalities and a normal ejection fraction.

3. Hematology:  The patient's platelets were 70 upon
admission.  They continued to remain low.  The patient's DIC
screen were equivocal.  However, his coags were also
elevated.  This is likely due to sepsis after the patient had
been treated with antibiotics.  The platelets began to rise.
These normalized as did his coags after treatment with
antibiotics.  Both the patient's coags and his platelets were
normal at the time of discharge.

4. Renal:  The patient had acute renal failure at the time of
presentation.  Urine electrolytes revealed that this is
probably prerenal due to sepsis and hypoperfusion.  With
aggressive fluid resuscitation, the patient's BUN and
creatinine returned to [**Location 213**].

5. Pulmonary:  Patient's presenting complaint was shortness
of breath and first chest x-ray at outside hospital was read
as being consistent with congestive heart failure.  However,
more likely, the patient had capillary leak due to his
sepsis.  The patient also developed septic emboli as a
complication of his bacteremia, and was felt to have
superinfection as well.

Patient's oxygenat