Admission Date:  [**2157-8-10**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2120-10-11**]       Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 36-year-old
female with past medical history significant for chronic back
pain and neck pain requiring chronic pain medication was
admitted to outside hospital on [**7-31**] for three days of
increasing abdominal pain that was initially sudden on onset.
The patient also had 8 weeks of green yellowish vaginal
discharge.  The patient was febrile with temperature of 104
in the Emergency Room at an outside hospital and tachycardiac
and decreased blood pressure with systolic in the 60's.  The
patient was found to have peritoneal signs and subsequently
taken to the operating room.  There on open laparotomy the
patient was found to have "pus in her abdomen and pelvis,
rapid strep test was performed and was positive for Group B
strep.  The patient had initially been treated with broad
spectrum antibiotics which was changed to Penicillin and
Clindamycin.

On [**2157-8-7**] the patient was changed to Vancomycin and Flagyl
to also cover a [**12-31**] blood culture positive for coagulase
negative staph infection.  There was no clear source of
infection and abdomen and pelvis on laparotomy.  The patient
remained intubate with increasing O2 requirement that
worsened consistent with adult respiratory distress syndrome.

The patient was previously on Levophed times 36 hours, now
stress dose steroids were subsequently discontinued.  The
patient had a colonoscopy on [**2157-8-9**], evaluated for C. diff
colitis which was negative.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Endometriosis.
2.  History of status post appendectomy.
3.  History of oophorectomy on the left side.
4.  Chronic back pain and neck pain.
5.  Lower extremity reflex sympathetic dystrophy.
6.  Radiculopathy with epidural fibrosis on chronic
    narcotics.
7.  Migraines.

ALLERGIES:  Codeine and Morphine and sulfa.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Meperidine upon transfer 50 mg p.o. mg b.i.d.
2.  Lasix 20 mg intravenous time two.
3.  Vancomycin 1.5 grams q 12 hours.
4.  Albuterol MDI.
5.  Propofol GGT
6.  Flagyl 250 mg q 6 hours.
7.  Insulin sliding scale.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has one child via invetro
fertilization, quit tobacco eight years ago.  Rare tobacco
usage.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Upon presentation temperature 101,
heart rate 94, blood pressure 127/54 sating at 97%
Respiratory rate 34 on vent settings.  An assist control 400,
tidal volume respiratory rate 24, FIO2 100%, PEEP 12.  In
general sedated but tachypneic, not responding to commands.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination is
normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils are equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular movements
intact.  Oropharynx was clear.  Neck:  Left IJ line in place,
no lymphadenopathy appreciated.  Lungs:  Clear bilateral
crackles.  Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and
S2.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdominal examination:
Midline incision with staples at the laparotomy site.  No
drainage.  Hypoactive bowel sounds, nontender to palpation,
warm and erythematous over abdomen and flanks.  Extremities:
2+ nonpitting ankle edema, 2+ nonpitting edema of the hands.
DP/PT pulses 2+ bilaterally.  Neurologic exam:  Sedated, not
following commands.

LABS:  Upon presentation white count 15,700, hematocrit 26.4,
hemoglobin 8.6, platelets 535,000.  Prothrombin time of 12.8,
PTT 30.4.  INR 1.1.  Sodium 141, potassium 3.8, chloride 109,
bicarbonate 24, BUN 13, creatinine 0.4.  Glucose of 104.
Calcium 7.9, magnesium 1.5.

Chest x-ray:  Slight increase worsening of her adult
respiratory distress syndrome, bilateral infiltrates.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN:  36-year-old female who has sepsis status
post abdominal surgery on [**7-31**] possible pelvic source who now
with persistent O2 requirement and bilateral infiltrates and
fevers suggestive of adult respiratory distress syndrome.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1.  Pulmonary.  The patient was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit originally tried on assist control ventilation.
However, the patient had persistently high pulmonary
pressures in the 50's, a transesophageal balloon was placed
which confirmed the patient's pressures.  The patient had
episodes of acute hypoxemia and hypercarbia.  During hospital
course initially was difficult to ventilate and oxygenate.
The patient was subsequently tried with increased paralytics
however, the patient despite large doses of paralytics was
not paralyzed.  The patient was also placed on increasing
doses of sedation requiring Fentanyl of 1300 mg per hour and
Ativan at 20 mg per hour.  Despite these, the patient was
very light on sedation.

Ultimately the patient was proned with improvement in her
oxygenation and ventilation.  The patient was subsequently
left on pressure control ventilation for prolonged period of
time with permissive hypercapnia, pH allowed to fall to 7.2.
The patient ultimately was changed over to pressure support.
Ventilation was adequate ventilation, oxygenation and
sedation was subsequently weaned.  The patient was ultimately
trached on [**2157-8-23**].  The patient will require prolonged
weaning course for her adult respiratory distress syndrome.

2.  Cardiology.  Tachycardia, the patient was always
tachycardiac during hospital course secondary to anxiety.
The patient had several episodes of hypotension requiring
intravenous fluid boluses and transient chemical pressors
which the patient subsequently was able to wean off.
Recorded Stem Test which was performed upon admission for her
hypertension and subsequently was normal.  The patient is
currently hemodynamically stable however, remains
tachycardiac.  Electrocardiogram reveals sinus tachycardia.

3.  Renal.  The patient had normal BUN and creatinine
throughout hospital course and has good urine output.  The
patient's in's and out's have been relatively even.  All her
intravenous fluids in were diuresed through her urine.

4.  Infectious Disease.  During hospital course upon
presentation the patient was febrile.  Unclear of source.
Outside blood cultures grew out Group A strep.  The patient
was continued on Clindamycin, Vancomycin, Cefepime and was
covered broadly during initially.  Gynecology was consulted
with regards to patient possible vaginal source.  Vaginal
cultures were negative.  Chlamydia and GC were also negative.
Vaginal ultrasound was performed upon presentation which
originally was questionable hydropyelosalpinx however, CT
scan of her abdomen did not confirm this.  A CT scan of
abdomen did reveal large amounts of pelvic fluid of which
Intervention Radiology was consulted for sampling of the
fluid.  Ultrasound guided sampling of the fluid did not
reveal any organisms and cultures have thus been negative
thus far.

The patient persistently spiked temperatures during hospital
course and blood cultures have not grown any organism to
date.  Only one set of cultures have been positive, 1/2
bottles drawn through an arterial line and the arterial line
grew out coagulase staph, arterial line subsequently
discontinued and the catheter tip grew out coagulase negative
staph as well.  Infectious Disease ultimately recommended
peeling back on antibiotics after she completed her course of
Clindamycin for Group A strep.  Cefepime was subsequently
discontinued.  The patient subsequently defervesced after
peeling back of antibiotics.  The patient was started on
Acyclovir intravenously for cutaneous HSV which was positive
on TSA staining.  The patient was covered empirically for HSV
encephalitis as Lumbar puncture was attempted to rule out HSV
encephalitis however, was unsuccessful given the patient's
history of lower back surgery and multiple injections.  The
patient was covered empirically for C. diff colitis as well
with Metronidazole given the patient's prolonged course of
Clindamycin, Cefepime.  The patient had not had any stool or
bowel movements.  The patient received a seven day course of
Flagyl.

Ultimately Vancomycin was restarted on [**2157-8-27**] for
Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus in her sputum as
for increased secretions.

5.  Genitourinary: Given the fact that the patient