Admission Date:  [**2110-6-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2110-6-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2041-2-16**]     Sex:  F

Service:  OB/GYN

DIAGNOSIS:  Papillary serous ovarian cancer, stage IIIC,
status post suboptimal debulking.

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient is a 69-year-old gravida 5,
para 4, with a 2-month history of abdominal girth increase
and pelvic and back pain.  The patient had recently had a
paracentesis which revealed an ovarian carcinoma.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient had multiple
admissions for her extensive comorbidities, and in [**Month (only) **] the
patient had been diagnosed with adenocarcinoma with
peritoneal fluid tapped with paracentesis on the Medicine
Service.  The patient had been referred to Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5166**] for
surgery.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history is significant
for)
 1.  Type 2 diabetes.
 2.  Chronic renal insufficiency with a bowel sounds
creatinine of 1.5 to 2.2.
 3.  History of tachycardia/bradycardia syndrome, status post
pacemaker.
 4.  Gout.
 5.  Gastritis.
 6.  Septic arthritis.
 7.  Status post lithotripsy for nephrolithiasis.
 8.  Periodic atrial tachycardia to 150, started on
amiodarone in [**2109-9-2**].
 9.  History of ventricular tachycardia.
10.  Coronary artery disease, status post myocardial
infarction times two; status post percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty times four; status post coronary artery
bypass graft (3-vessel disease with only 1-vessel coronary
artery bypass graft); status post Persantine sestamibi in
[**2110-1-3**] with left ventricular ejection fraction of
36%; moderately fixed anterior wall and apex, severely fixed
perfusion defect in the basilar portion of the anterior wall.
11.  Cholelithiasis.
12.  Left hydronephrosis/hydroureter on CT scan in [**2110-1-3**].
13.  Congestive heart failure, status post transthoracic
echocardiogram showing moderate left atrial enlargement, mild
right atrial enlargement, left ventricular ejection fraction
of 25%, 2+ mitral regurgitation, 1+ tricuspid regurgitation.
14.  Status post "partial hysterectomy" 15 years ago.
15.  History of degenerative joint disease.
16.  hyperkalemia.
17.  Ascites, status post paracentesis on [**2110-5-24**];
diagnosing adenocarcinoma.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:   Isordil 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Synthroid 25 mcg p.o. q.d., hydralazine 25 mg p.o. q.i.d.,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 20 mg p.o. q.h.s., oxazepam 13 mg
p.o. t.i.d. as needed, Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.d., insulin NPH,
enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., captopril was
discontinued, Coreg 3.125 one tablet p.o. b.i.d., Prilosec
was discontinued, Zocor was discontinued, amiodarone was
discontinued, Aldactone was discontinued, Zaroxolyn 2.5 was
discontinued.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is retired and lives
independently at home with her husband of 50 plus years.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient has a mother with a history of
cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient was intubated and responded to voice and
command, nodded "yes" to abdominal discomfort.  Vital signs
revealed a temperature of 98, heart rate was 87, and N blood
pressure was 112/39, A blood pressure was 106/49.  Neck
examination revealed right internal jugular triple lumen was
in place.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate
and rhythm, distant first heart sound and second heart sound.
Chest examination revealed rhonchorous upper airway sounds
bilaterally.  The abdomen was soft and distended, significant
positive tenderness bilaterally and diffusely, with no bowel
sounds.  Extremities revealed no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.
Skin revealed a midline abdominal dressing was clean, dry,
and intact.  Ventilation pressures revealed respiratory 9,
SaO2 was 100%, OP, A-C 8 X 600, FIO2 was 0.5, positive
end-expiratory pressure was 5.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION: Laboratory values
revealed a white blood cell count of 9.2, hematocrit was
29.7, platelets were 401.  Sodium was 135, potassium was 4.1,
chloride was 92, bicarbonate was 29, blood urea nitrogen
was 68, creatinine was 1.8, blood glucose was 114.  PT was
12.8, PTT was 30.2.

A chest x-ray preoperatively showed cardiomegaly with no
evidence of congestive heart failure or pneumonia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit status post suboptimal debulking for papillary
serous ovarian cancer, stage IIIC.  Hospital course by
systems.

The patient was admitted to Twelve [**Hospital Ward Name 1827**] on postoperative
day two after being extubated successfully.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient has a history of coronary
artery disease and congestive heart failure, status post
coronary artery bypass graft and pacemaker, with an ejection
fraction of 20%.  The patient received 2 units of packed red
blood cells upon admission to the Intensive Care Unit.  Her
admission transfusion hematocrit was 28.1.  The patient was
maintained on her Coreg, hydralazine, and Isordil.

The patient's blood pressures remained stable during her
initial hospital stay; however, on postoperative day seven,
the patient was noted to have a decrease in blood pressure.
However, her heart rate was maintained.  The patient's blood
pressure was stabilized with fluid boluses, but secondary to
her increased abdominal girth and rebuilding of ascites, the
patient was also diuresed with 5% albumin boluses.

The patient remained afebrile, but due to the concern of
sepsis and her blood pressure dropping to 70s/30s to 40s, the
patient was empirically started on Unasyn intravenously, and
blood and urine cultures were drawn.  All of the patient's
medications were held at this point.  The patient's
hematocrit was drawn and noted to be stable at 36.3.  At this
time, there was no indication that the patient was breathing
intraperitoneally, as her urine output was maintained
adequate.

The working hypothesis was that the patient was possible very
volume depleted and third-spacing versus septic.  At this
point, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] was aware and postponed the patient's
scheduled chemotherapy for a later time.  For the remainder
of the [**Hospital 228**] hospital stay, her blood pressures were
maintained with fluid and oral intake.

2.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient had an nasogastric tube in
place upon transfer from the Intensive Care Unit.  On
postoperative day two, the patient's nasogastric tube was
discontinued but kept n.p.o.   The patient's bowel function
seemed to return to baseline; however, the patient's oral
intake was minimal at best.

On postoperative day eight, the patient started feeling
nausea and vomiting and with her abdominal pain increasing
and the issue of potential sepsis, the patient had the
nasogastric tube replaced.  There was concern that this was
ileus versus small-bowel obstruction.  A KUB was done, and
there was no evidence of bowel obstruction and notable for a
gallstone in the right upper quadrant.  The patient was
maintained with maintenance intravenous fluids.

On postoperative day 13, the patient had her nasogastric tube
discontinued.  The patient was maintained on Zofran,
Prilosec, and Tigan for nausea and vomiting episodes.  There
was concern throughout that the patient was developing an
ileus event though maintained that she had flatus throughout
her hospital stay.

3.  RENAL:  The patient with a history of chronic renal
insufficiency.  The patient's laboratory values were checked
on a regular basis.  A Foley catheter had been placed to
monitor urine output.  The Foley inadvertently came out when
the patient was ambulating on postoperative day three.  When
the patient experienced her hypotensive episodes, the Foley
was replaced and kept in place until her discharge.

4.  ENDOCRINE:  The patient was placed on a regular insulin
sliding-scale for her insulin-dependent diabetes as the
patient had minimal oral intake (NPH was not restarted).  The
patient was also on her Synthroid for hypothyroidism.

5.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  After the patient's hypertension
episode on postoperative day three, the patient was noted to
have blood cultures that were gram-negative rod positive.
Th