Admission Date:  [**2201-3-19**]     Discharge Date:  [**2201-3-31**]


Service:

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname **] is an
82-year-old male with CHF secondary to ischemic
cardiomyopathy, CAD, permanent pacemaker for bradycardia with
multiple admissions for CHF, with significant cardiac risk
factors who presents to [**Hospital6 256**]
with crescendo angina.  He initially had been scheduled for
an elective catheterization for later in the week of
presentation but he was admitted to the ED with crescendo
angina and went to cardiac catheterization upon presentation.

Mr. [**Known lastname **] presents to the CCU status post catheterization
secondary to pulmonary edema requiring intubation.
Initially, Mr. [**Known lastname **] presented to the ED on the day of
admission complaining of chest pain and shortness of breath
while dressing on the morning of admission.  He said that the
pain was relieved with two sublingual nitroglycerin.  He
received aspirin prior to his arrival to the ED.  His EKG was
paced.  He received Lopressor 5 mg IV and then went to the
Catheterization Laboratory.  He had an LAD lesion of 80%,
proximal mid 90% distal with 80% high diagonal and left
circumflex had diffuse disease.  He had a 60% RCA lesion,
collaterals to the PDA.

While in the Catheterization Laboratory, he was noted to
desat to 87%.  He initially had been 99% on room air in the
ER.  This hypoxia persisted in the Recovery Room with
increasing respiratory distress.  His ABGs showed 7.25, 48,
182, on a nonrebreather mask, consistent with respiratory
acidosis as well as a metabolic acidosis.  His bicarbonate
was 16 at that time.

Bedside echocardiogram showed an apical HK.  No effusion;
global systolic dysfunction.  His blood pressure had
decreased and he was started on dopamine.  He was intubated
and taken back to the Catheterization Laboratory.  A Swan was
placed and he had right atrial pressures of 19, PA pressures
of 57/27, wedge 30, and a cardiac output of 7 with an index
of 4.36.  Natrecor was started and the patient was
transferred to the CCU.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  CHF with multiple admissions for heart failure, the last
had been on [**2201-3-9**] to [**2201-3-14**].
2.  CAD, last catheterization in 09/89 with two vessel
disease, supranormal EF and diastolic dysfunction.  He has
cardiac risk factors of hypercholesterolemia and hypertension
as well as tobacco use.  He had a stress echocardiogram in
[**9-1**] which showed a CK of the mid-distal anterior wall,
anterior septum, with an increased heart rate, pacing versus
ischemia.  He had an echocardiogram in [**12-1**] with biatrial
enlargement, mild LVH, EF of approximately 35% with 2+ MR and
no pulmonary hypertension.  He has a pacemaker DDD for
bradycardia.
3.  PVD, status post aortic bifemoral bypass.
4.  History of COPD.
5.  Depression.
6.  Glaucoma.
7.  Gout.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1.  Aspirin.
2.  Lopressor 25 b.i.d.
3.  Imdur 30 q.d.
4.  Lisinopril 5 q.d.
5.  Lipitor 40 q.d.
6.  Lasix 40 q.d.
7.  Nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n.
8.  Amiodarone 200 q.d.
9.  Risperidone 0.25 mg q.d.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] smokes
approximately one cigarette a day, occasional alcohol.

When he presented to the CCU, he was on aspirin 325 mg q.d.,
Plavix 75 q.d., metoprolol 25 b.i.d. which had been held
while he was on a pressor, Imdur 60 q.d. which was held while
he was on a pressor, Captopril 25 t.i.d., again held while he
was on a pressor.  These were restarted after the
catheterization and the visualization except for the
Lopressor with the visualization of his elevated wedge.  His
Natrecor when he came to the CCU was 0.01 micrograms per
kilogram per minute.  He was on Combivent MDI, Protonix 40
q.d. and Pravastatin.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  On
presentation to the CCU, his temperature was 98, heart rate
65, blood pressure 122/53, saturating 100% on AC 700 by 22
with FI0 of 50% and PEEP of 5.  His ABG was 7.47, 25, 207.
His Swan numbers were PA 42/38, PA mean 33.  His ins and outs
were 24 in and 11 to 20 out.  He was intubated and sedated.
HIs pupils were surgical.  No JVP seen in the supine
position.  No LAD.  Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.  No
murmurs, rubs, or gallops, although the examination was
limited by the ventilator.  The lungs revealed some bibasilar
crackles laterally.  Soft and mild, moderately distended
abdomen, no tympany.  No splenomegaly.  Positive bowel
sounds.  Extremities:  He has Dopplerable pulses bilaterally
in the dorsalis pedis position and trace edema.  His left leg
was in an immobilizer secondary to the Swan.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  The laboratories on presentation
to the CCU revealed a hematocrit of 36, white count 13.9, 86%
neutrophils, 11 lymphocytes, platelets 204,000.  Sodium 134,
potassium 4.2, chloride 103, bicarbonate 20, gap 14, BUN 34,
creatinine 1.5, platelets 292,000, gap of 14.  CKs 178, 144,
175, MBs 6 and each troponin was less than 0.03 times two.
Calcium 7.7, phosphorus 4.3, magnesium 128, lactate 2.0.

Chest x-ray in the ED at presentation showed mild CHF.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 82-year-old male with
CAD, CHF, hypercholesterolemia, and hypertension, peripheral
vascular disease, who presents to the CCU status post LAD
stent, whose catheterization was complicated by hypoxic
respiratory failure and hypercarbic respiratory failure with
metabolic and respiratory acidosis.  The repeat
catheterization showed no change in his stents but his
filling pressures were increased.

The possible etiology of failure could be the
cardiosupressive effect of the dye versus ischemia at another
site.  The bedside echocardiogram during catheterization
showed no evidence of tamponade.  The possibilities of
respiratory acidosis could have been from decreased perfusion
without respiratory compensation or decreased respiratory
drive secondary to oversedation.  He had been anxious and
repeated multiple sedative doses as  well as there being a
communication impediment secondary to the patient's Russian
language for which he does not speak English.

1.  RESPIRATORY FAILURE:  The patient came to the CCU
intubated; however, he was on Natrecor.  He put out negative
1.5 liters over the first 24 hours and was successfully
extubated and in the first 24 hours.  His Swan was
discontinued.  His mixed venous was 66, cardiac output 3.9,
cardiac index 2.3, PA pressures 43/17.  His Natrecor and
dopamine drips were also discontinued in the first 24 hours.

2.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  Catheterization number one
showed proximal RCA 60%, proximal LAD 80% tubular, diagonal 1
90% discreet, midcircumflex 70 and 90% diffusely diseased
distal circumflex, 100% discreet OM1 50%, OM2 30%.

The patient had successful PTCA stenting of 80% LAD lesion.
Limited resting hemodynamics revealed a moderately elevated
left ventricular filling pressure with an LVEDP of 21 mmHg in
the setting of normal systemic arterial blood pressure.  Left
ventriculography was not performed during this
catheterization and 3VD and moderate left ventricular
diastolic dysfunction.

The patient had a second catheterization to evaluate the
hypoxia that he experienced in the holding room.  The
pulmonary artery pressure was 58/28, reduced to 47/25 with
the initiation of Natrecor.  Wedge was a mean of 30,
decreased to 21 with the initiation of Natrecor.  The
vascular resistance was 696.

Angiography of the left coronary artery demonstrated a widely
patent LAD stent with no change from the previous study.  The
commissure showed elevated biventricular pressure with normal
cardiac output.

3.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient was continued on
aspirin and Plavix as well as a statin when the patient was
euvolemic.  The beta blocker was restarted.  The ACE
inhibitor was also slowly titrated up.

4.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE:  The patient was initially
placed on the Natrecor as previously stated with good
diuresis, extubation, and then on the date of discharge the
patient was 97% on room air.  The Natrecor was discontinued
after the first day of treatment.  Pulmonary arterial
diastolic pressure wa