Admission Date:  [**2110-7-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2110-9-10**]


Service:  MICU-ORANG

Previous discharge summary completed through period of [**8-11**].

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86-year-old
Russian-only speaking male with a history of atrial
fibrillation who refused anticoagulation therapy,
hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic
renal insufficiency and peripheral vascular disease who was
admitted on [**7-28**] to the Medical Service at [**Hospital1 346**] with Clostridium difficile colitis.
The patient had previously failed outpatient course of Flagyl
and was admitted with GI an Surgery follow up.  He was
treated with a 20 day course of p.o. vancomycin, an eight day
course of intravenous Flagyl and IVIG with slow resolution of
his GI symptoms.

On hospital day 15 patient was found to be unresponsive with
a witnessed tonic-clonic seizure activity.  He was
transferred to the MICU with close neurologic follow up.  He
had no past history of seizure disorder and then extensive
workup that followed did not reveal any obvious cause.  He
had a negative CT and MR of his head, a negative EEG and a
lumbar puncture was not performed.  The patient's course in
the SICU was complicated by a respiratory decompensation that
was felt to be secondary to his underlying chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease with the addition of a presumed
aspiration pneumonia versus pneumonitis.  The patient was
transferred back to the floor on [**8-18**] with a post
transfer course significant for continued abdominal pain and
some distended loops of bowel on a KUB possibly secondary to
an ileus as well as shortness of breath with a left lower
lobe infiltrate.  He was given a ten day course of
levofloxacin for presumed aspiration pneumonia with the last
dose on [**8-23**].  He received multiple bedside swallow
evaluations and a video swallow study which showed aspiration
to all consistencies.  The patient was transferred from the
floor to the Medical Intensive Care Unit on [**8-26**] for
respiratory decompensation with rate going into the 40's and
oxygen saturations decreasing into the 80's despite good
suctioning.  He was electively intubated at that point for
respiratory distress.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Includes atrial fibrillation with
previous refusals to take anticoagulation medicines,
hypertension, peripheral vascular disease status post a right
_____ artery stent, osteoarthritis, chronic renal
insufficiency, benign prostatic hypertrophy and he is status
post an SMA stent.  He also has congestive heart failure with
a past ejection fraction on echocardiogram noted at 30-40%, a
right inguinal hernia, status post left inguinal hernia
repair, status post right total hip replacement and status
post recent Clostridium difficile colitis and new onset
seizure disorder.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  This is a Russian-speaking only male who
lives with his wife.  Denies alcohol use and quit tobacco
some 30 years ago.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER TO MICU ON 12TH:  Diltiazem 90
t.i.d., Dilantin 400 q. day, simethicone, Reglan 10 q.i.d.,
viscous lidocaine as needed, Atrovent and albuterol nebs q.
4h., insulin sliding scale, Hydralazine 10 q. 6h. and Lasix
40 b.i.d., guaifenesin p.r.n., Nystatin Swish 'n Swallow,
Flovent and an aspirin 325 q. day.

ALLERGIES:  Include penicillin and Demerol, reactions
unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On initial presentation on the 12th to
the MICU Service, he was 100 degrees Fahrenheit with a heart
rate of 121, blood pressure of 91/52, respiratory rate of 23
and satting 99%.  His ventilations settings were AC tidal
volume of 600 by a rate of 12, FiO2 of 50% and a PEEP of 5.
He was intubated and sedated with low frequency jerking
motions in his upper extremities bilaterally.  He had dry
mucus membranes and no jugular venous distention.  He had
some decreased breath sounds at the bases, left more than
right.  His heart sounds were distant and no murmurs were
appreciated at the time.  He had a soft belly with no
guarding or rigidity.  He had positive bowel sounds and some
questionable mild distention.  He had no lower extremity
edema.

LABORATORY ON 12TH:  Notable for a high white count at 19.4.
He had a hematocrit of 28.7 which was consistent with his
previous anemia.  He had a platelet count of 302,000.  His
BMP was sodium of 145, potassium of 3.3, chloride of 113,
bicarb of 19, BUN and creatinine of 68 and 2.2 and a glucose
of 133.  The patient has a baseline creatinine of about 2
from his chronic renal insufficiency.  The patient had an
albumin of 2.2, a calcium of 7.5, magnesium of 1.5 and
phosphorus of 4.6.  Patient had a recent gas of 7.3, 39 and
400 with a lactate of 4.5.  He has been persistent blood
culture negative and was Clostridium difficile negative at
the time of transfer, his last positive Clostridium difficile
was on [**7-29**].

MEDICAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT COURSE:
1.  Infectious Disease:  The patient's initial presentation
was for Clostridium difficile colitis.  His symptoms appeared
to resolve with antibiotic therapy.  Abdominal CT on [**8-28**] showed no radiographic evidence of colitis, including no
obstruction, wall thickening or pneumatosis.  The abdominal
CT was remarkable only for a large left renal cyst and a
calcification in the spleen which was probable a granuloma.
The patient has remained Clostridium difficile toxin negative
in his stool and had a repeat CT after the placement of PEG
tube performed on [**9-8**] which also showed an
unremarkable abdomen with no sign of colitis.

The patient has consistently failed swallow studies and has
shown to be an aspiration risk.  He did develop pneumonia
while here at [**Hospital1 69**] which by
BAL was shown to be methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus.  The patient completed a 14 day course of vancomycin
for MRSA pneumonia with resolution of white count and fevers.
On [**9-8**] CT scan of abdomen changes were seen at the
bases of the lungs including a pleural effusion, larger on
the left than right, and a few small cavitary lung lesions,
consistent with a Staph pneumonia.  Clinical team felt these
cavitations were the result of the pneumonia, not
representing septic emboli.  However, to be certain, a
transesophageal echocardiogram was performed which showed no
evidence of vegetations on the [**9-9**].  The patient
had a similarly negative TE performed on the [**8-29**].

The patient is on day four of seven of levofloxacin for Gram
negative rods that were found in an [**9-6**] sputum sample.
This likely represents a super infection in tracheobronchitis
for which a one week course of levofloxacin should be
sufficient.

2.  Respiratory status:  The patient has been intubated since
here in the Medical Intensive Care Unit.  He had a trach
placed on [**9-4**].  The latest RSBI study was 160.  His
negative inspiratory force was low at 15.  This indicates
some respiratory muscle weakness and indicates that he may be
difficult to wean from the ventilator.  Currently he is on
pressure support and CPAP with a pressure of 10, a PEEP of 5,
an FiO2 of 0.4 and tidal volumes ranging from 4 to 500.  This
allows him to keep a stable sat in the high 90's.

3.  Neurologic:  The patient has new onset seizure disorder
that developed during this hospitalization.  He had a
generalized tonic-clonic seizure that was noted on the floor.
Subsequent workup was negative for cause.  He has been
maintained on Dilantin since that episode with some trouble
achieving therapeutic dose.  He has required several 500 mg
boluses to reach a higher level.  Recommend re-checking the
level of Dilantin, in addition, possibly with a free Dilantin
level in one to three days to see if dose needs to be
adjusted.  Currently he is taking 100 Dilantin suspension
t.i.d. as a maintenance dose.  His albumin has been low and
Dilantin level needs to be adjusted accordingly.

4.  Hematology:  The patient did receive transfusion of two
units of packed red blood cells earlier in his hospital stay.
Currently he is maintained at a relatively stable hematocrit
in the upper 20's.  He was placed on Epogen at 8000 units
three times a week on a Monday, Wednesday, Friday schedule
for his chronic renal