Admission Date:  [**2188-9-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2188-9-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2111-6-6**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain, hypertension on nitroglycerin
drip.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77 year-old
gentleman with a history of atrial fibrillation, coronary
artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass graft in
[**2181**], history of congestive heart failure with ejection
fraction of 40% who was admitted for chest pain and rule out
myocardial infarction to Acove Service.  On the night of
admission the patient developed 9 out of 10 chest pain that
lasted more then thirty minutes.  It was not relieved with
sublingual nitroglycerin.  Required 9 mg of morphine and
nitroglycerin drip to improve the pain.  While on
nitroglycerin drip the patient developed mild hypertension
with systolic blood pressure in the low 90s for which he was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit.  The patient was
recently discharged from [**Hospital1 69**]
after admission for a urinary tract infection/pneumonia
treated with Levofloxacin.  At that time urine culture was
not available and at the present time is growing MRSA.  On
the day prior to admission the patient reported chest pain
associated with shortness of breath, diaphoresis and some
nausea.  The chest tightness was not relieved with the
nitroglycerin, but resolved with Darvocet.  At the time of
his transfer to the Intensive Care Unit the patient's enzymes
times three were negative.  The chest pain that led to an
initiation of a heparin drip was slightly different from the
admission chest pain.  It was persistent and associated with
shortness of breath, diaphoresis and it radiated to the
shoulder.  It did improve with the nitroglycerin drip and
morphine.  There were no electrocardiogram changes noted,
however, the patient is AV paced with wide left bundle branch
block appearing QRS.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Atrial fibrillation on Amiodarone.
2.  History of gastrointestinal bleed secondary to peptic
ulcer disease in [**2187-12-1**].  3.  Coronary artery
disease with his last coronary artery bypass graft in [**2181**]
with two saphenous vein grafts and left internal mammary
coronary artery to left anterior descending coronary artery.
The echocardiogram showed severe MR, tricuspid regurgitation,
ejection fraction of 36%, severe pulmonary hypertension and
1+ aortic regurgitation.  His last cardiac catheterization
was in [**2188-2-29**], which showed apical akinesis
anterolateral and anterior apical hypokinesis, totally
occluded saphenous vein graft and totally occluded native
vessels.  4.  Status post DDI pacemaker in [**2179**], which was
changed in [**2188-7-31**] for atrial fibrillation and sick
sinus syndrome.  5.  Hypercholesterolemia.  6.  Chronic renal
insufficiency with creatinine between 2.2 and 2.4.  7.
Diabetes insulin dependent.  8.  Gastroesophageal reflux
disease.  9.  Hyperthyroidism.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Humalog insulin 24 q.a.m., NPH 26
and 60 in the morning and in the afternoon respectively.
Levofloxacin 250 q.d., Spironolactone 25 mg po q.d., Protonix
40 mg po q day, Toprol 25 mg po b.i.d., Lipitor 10 mg po
b.i.d., Lasix 80 mg b.i.d., aspirin 81 mg po q.d., Colace 100
mg po b.i.d., Levothyroxine 25 mcq po q.d., Amiodarone 200 mg
po q.d., Digoxin 0.125 mg po q.d., Lisinopril 20 mg po q.d.,
Vancomycin 1 gram received.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 96.9.  Pulse 70 AV paced.
Blood pressure 104/50.  Respiratory rate 18.  O2 sat 97% on
room air.  In general, the patient was an elderly man in no
acute distress.  HEENT extraocular movements intact.  Pupils
are equal, round and reactive to light.  No lymphadenopathy.
No JVD.  Oropharynx dry.  Lungs clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Heart regular rate and rhythm, 3 out of 6
systolic ejection murmur at sternal border.  Abdomen soft,
nontender, nondistended with good bowel sounds.  Extremities
show no clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  There was 2+ pulses on
the left and 1+ pulses on the right.

LABORATORY FINDINGS ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count
10.5, hematocrit 33.7, platelet count 384.  Differential on
the white blood cell was 77 neutrophils, 16 lymphocytes, 6
monocytes, 1 eosinophils.  Chem 7 sodium 138, potassium 4.1,
chloride 103, bicarb 24, BUN 50, creatinine 2.0, glucose 107.
His creatinine clearance was estimated at 43.  His calcium
was 9.0, phosphate 5.3, magnesium 2.2, albumin 3.0, TSH 2.5,
sed rate 89, PT and INR of 12.7 and 1.1.  PTT 24.  His CK was
48, 43 and 39.  Troponin was less then 0.3 times three.
Digoxin was 0.7.  Vancomycin level was 12.  Blood cultures
from [**9-12**] were pending.  Urine cultures from [**9-6**] grew 10 to
100,000 MRSA.  Chest x-ray showed no congestive heart
failure.  There was persistent opacification in the right
middle lobe and the left base with atelectasis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  In summary the patient is a 77 year-old
gentleman with significant coronary artery disease, history
of congestive heart failure who presents with chest pain
requiring morphine and nitroglycerin drip.  The patient's
issues during the hospitalization included:

1.  Cardiac:  The constellation of the patient's symptoms
could represent acute coronary syndrome for which he was
started on a heparin drip and nitroglycerin drip.  His
Lipitor, aspirin, Lasix and oxygen supplementation were
continued.  He was evaluated by his primary cardiologist Dr.
[**First Name (STitle) **] and underwent Persantine stress test during which he
did not develop any arm, neck, back or chest discomfort.  His
electrocardiogram was not interpretable for ischemia and
images revealed severe partially reversible perfusion defect
of the lateral wall as well as severe predominantly fixed
perfusion defect of the inferior wall in addition to moderate
global hyperkinesis with ejection fraction of 33%.  Based on
these findings and prior cardiac catheterization showing
severe native three vessel disease and totally occluded to
saphenous vein graft and graft with patent left internal
mammary coronary artery, the patient was judged not to have a
disease that could be intervened on by cardiac
catheterization.  The decision was made to manage him
medically.  His heparin as well as nitroglycerin drips were
discontinued and he remained chest pain free with the
exception of a single episode during which he had 2 out of 10
chest pain relieved by nitroglycerin.  The patient's beta
blocker was changed to Toprol and titrated up to 37.5 mg q.d.

Throughout this hospitalization the patient's congestive
heart failure remained compensated.  He was continued on his
outpatient regimen of congestive heart failure medications.

2.  Infectious disease:  During this hospitalization the
patient received a course of Vancomycin for his MRSA urinary
tract infection.  In addition, he continued on his
Levofloxacin for the right middle lobe infiltrate.  He
remained afebrile with normal white count and without left
shift.

3.  Diabetes:  During this hospitalization the patient's
diabetes was controlled with outpatient insulin regimen with
good blood sugars.

4.  Prophylaxis:  He was continued on his Protonix and
heparin subQ.

5.  He is being discharged home to follow up with his
cardiologist Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] as well as his primary care
physician [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 94642**] within the next two weeks.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Humalog insulin 24 units q
breakfast, NPH insulin 26 units q breakfast, 6 units q
bedtime, Humalog sliding scale, Amiodarone 200 mg po q day,
Digoxin 0.125 mg po q day, Lisinopril 20 mg po q day, Lipitor
10 mg po q day, Lasix 80 mg po b.i.d., Colace 100 mg po q.d.,
Levothyroxine 25 mcq po q.d., Levofloxacin 250 mg po q.d.
until [**9-23**].  Spironolactone 25 mg po q.d., Protonix 40 mg po
q.d., Toprol XL 37.5 mg po q.d., Ambien 5 mg po q.h.s. prn,
aspirin 81 mg po q.d., nitroglycerin 0.3 mg sublingual prn
chest pain.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Coronary artery disease to be managed medically, patent
left internal mammary coronary artery, partially reversible
severe perfusion defect of the lateral wall.
2.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction 