Admission Date:  [**2140-3-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2140-4-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2071-10-30**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 68 year old gentleman
with a history of Parkinson's disease and a recent prolonged
complicated admission, status post motor vehicle accident
where he was hit by a car as a pedestrian who returned with
fever, shortness of breath and hypotension from
rehabilitation.  He was admitted on [**2140-1-15**] to
[**2140-3-12**] after being struck by a car.  In that
admission he had a complicated course including a right
fibular fracture and right acetabular fracture and multiple
left rib fractures and left perisplenic hematoma and left
common femoral vein deep vein thrombosis and had a inferior
vena cava filter placed on [**2140-1-6**].  He also had
evidence of right lower extremity skin necrosis in the thigh
and cellulitis which was debrided and had a skin graft from
his thigh.  Also during that hospitalization, he had an
exploratory laparotomy which showed left retroperitoneal,
perinephric hematoma, also complicated by pancreatitis status
post endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and
sphincterotomy and Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus pneumonia which was treated with Vancomycin.  He was
discharged on [**1-10**] to [**Hospital1 **].  He was there two to
three days prior to representation at [**Hospital6 649**].  He developed fevers, tachypnea and shortness
of breath at that rehabilitation and was sent back in for
further evaluation.  On admission he had evidence of a right
lower lobe pneumonia.  He was started on Flagyl for concern
for aspiration pneumonia.  He was given a dose of Azotreanam
at the rehabilitation and was started on Vancomycin given his
history of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

Review of systems was positive for fevers, shortness of
breath, cough which was nonproductive with a rare yellowish
sputum.  He had dark brown diarrhea, positive back pain since
his accident.  No abdominal pain.  He was taking p.o., no
coughing after eating.  No nausea, vomiting or dysuria.  In
the Emergency Room, he was noted to have temperature to 101.5
with systolic blood pressure of 84, respiratory rate between
30 to 40 and 87% saturations on room air.  He was given 3
liters of normal saline.  His blood pressure came up to
133/86.  A central line was placed in his right internal
jugular vein.  He was given Ceftriaxone and admitted to the
Medicine Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Past medical history includes 1.
Parkinson's disease since [**2121**]; 2.  Hypertension; 3.  Status
post motor vehicle accident trauma, being hit as a
pedestrian; 4.  Prostate cancer, status post prostatectomy.

ALLERGIES:  Zosyn and Levaquin.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Sinemet, Senna, Atrovent,
Albuterol, Seroquel, Ultram, Entacapone with the Sinemet,
cream Glycerine, Lactulose, Colace, multivitamin, Tylenol,
Fragmin, Prevacid, Flagyl started on [**3-20**], Azotreanam
started on [**3-21**] and then Vancomycin given one dose on
[**3-21**].

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Negative tobacco or alcohol.  He was an
engineer on a ship with positive asbestosis exposure,
currently at rehabilitation.  He has a wife and daughter in
the nearby town.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Negative for coronary artery disease,
diabetes and coronary artery disease or cancers.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Notable for temperature
101.5, blood pressure 181/76, heart rate 109, respiratory
rate 30, saturations 95% on 3 liters of nasal cannula.  In
general, he was an elderly Russian-speaking only male,
tachypneic.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat, flat neck
veins, pupils equal, round and reactive to light, anicteric
sclera, moist mucous membranes, left subclavian triple lumen
with some secondary erythema but no tenderness, warmth or
fluctuance.  Chest with bronchial breath sounds and rhonchi
of the left base with right bibasilar rales.  Heart was
tachycardiac with heart sounds obscured by rapid breath
sounds.  Abdomen was soft with a healed midline scar,
nontender.  Extremities, trace to 1+ patchy edema in
bilateral lower extremities.  Well granulation tissue over
graft on his right lower extremity.  Back, left Stage 1
decubitus ulcer over his left buttocks, no surrounding
cellulitis.  Rectal, guaiac negative.  Neurological, cogwheel
rigidity, alert and oriented.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory data on admission revealed white
count 17.5, hematocrit 28.6, platelets 292.  Sodium 140,
potassium 4.1, chloride 104, bicarbonate 27, BUN 26,
creatinine 0.9, glucose 99, lactate 2.1, INR 1.4.  Urinalysis
was hazy with a specific gravity of 1.029, 30 protein, 15
ketones, trace leukocyte esterase, large blood, 11 to 20 of
red blood cells, treated by white blood cells, moderate
bacteria. Cultures were pending on admission.  An
echocardiogram in [**2140-1-4**] with normal ejection
fraction, no wall motion abnormality, no valvular disease.
Chest x-ray with left lower lobe opacity.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 68 year old gentleman with
Parkinson's disease, status post recent long complicated
hospital course, status post a motor vehicle accident who
presented with fevers, shortness of breath and hypotension.

1.  Sepsis - The patient's likely sources were considered to
be pneumonia, urinary tract infection and diarrhea, given his
history of Clostridium difficile colitis.  Also a source
could have been decubitus ulcer.  The patient was admitted to
the Intensive Care Unit and started on broad spectrum
antibiotics, including Vancomycin, Ceftriaxone for pneumonia,
and Flagyl to cover for Clostridium difficile.  The patient's
previous left subclavian central line was pulled and sent for
cultures.  He had a new right internal jugular central line
placed.  He continued to have aggressive intravascular
repletion with intravenous fluids to which he responded,
presumably initially hypovolemic secondary to diarrhea,
fevers, tachypnea.  Chest x-ray confirmed left lower lobe
collapse, consolidation which has increased in prominence
since the previous study.  He does have a known elevated
right hemidiaphragm and this was stable from the previous
chest x-ray.  However, the patient was treated as a
nosocomial pneumonia with his recent hospitalization.  As he
was coming from the nursing home, the patient was treated
broadly with goal to complete a 14 day course of Vancomycin
and Ceftriaxone of which he started on [**3-21**], and which
will be completed on [**4-4**].  Blood cultures drawn on the
day of admission and follow up cultures remained negative.
The patient's stool was positive for Clostridium difficile
and sputum was positive for Methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus and the patient is to complete the two
week courses of both, and both will be completed on [**4-4**].
His leukocytosis from an admission of 17,000 did trend down
during the course of his stay with antibiotics.  His
hypotension through the course of the Medicine Intensive Care
Unit stay and on the floor was fluid-responsive and remains
stable.  Eventually he was restarted on his outpatient
hypertensive regimen.

2.  Respiratory distress - The patient was noted to have some
episodes of respiratory distress in the Medicine Intensive
Care Unit, he was treated with BiPAP as he was hypercapnic
and this did help improve his ventilatory status.  He
tolerated BiPAP well.  He was eventually weaned just to BiPAP
nightly.  He continued to retain carbon dioxide with a rise
in bicarbonate throughout the course of his stay and this was
considered likely secondary to a persistent carbon dioxide
retention.  His respiratory distress and hypercapnia were
attributed to his pneumonia.  Eventually also evidence of
right lower lobe pneumonia and right lower lobe collapse
likely was more susceptible secondary to his elevated right
hemidiaphragm which was chronic and more susceptible to
atelectasis in light of his hypotension and mental status
issues.  His respiratory status remained stable on the floor.
He was continued on oxygen by nasal cannula at a rate of 3
liters.  He tolerated this well with stable saturations
around 96%.  He was continued on nebulizers q. [**5-10**] with good
re