Admission Date:  [**2136-5-7**]       Discharge Date:  [**2136-5-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2083-8-31**]       Sex:  F

Service:  NEUROLOGY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 52 year old
right handed woman with a past history significant for
fibromyalgia, asthma, and chiropractic manipulation in the
week prior to presentation.  She was in her usual state of
health until approximately 4:00 p.m. on the day of admission
when she had a sudden onset of speech problems and right
sided arm and leg weakness causing her to be unable to stand.

She was brought to the [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Department immediately where she underwent a
magnetic resonance scan with diffusion weight imaging and an
intracranial MRA.  The magnetic resonance scan showed mild
diffusion hyperintensity in the deep white matter on the left
in the region of the internal capsule and periventricularly.
MRA showed left internal carotid artery/middle cerebral
artery occlusion.

The patient was given TPA at approximately one hour fifteen
minutes after the onset of symptoms.  She received a 5.4 mg
bolus and then a 54 mg total dose infused over one hour.

Her vascular risk factors are negative including no history
of smoking, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, cardiac
history or diabetes mellitus.  There is no history of
clotting problems in her or in her family.  She does have
headaches associated with her fibromyalgia but no history of
migraine headaches.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Ultram 50 mg one to two tablets p.o. q6hours p.r.n.
2.  Vanceril 42 mcg.
3.  Rhinocort 32 mcg two puffs q.nostril b.i.d.
4.  Maxair 0.2 mg.

ALLERGIES:  Prevacid and Prilosec which give her
gastrointestinal upset.  Pyridium which causes nausea and
vomiting.  Naprosyn causes gastrointestinal discomfort.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has no history of smoking.
Occasional alcohol use.  She lives with her husband and two
daughters.  She works as a choral director and as a museum
consultant.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, the patient was
afebrile, blood pressure 130/56, heart rate 60 to 65,
respiratory rate 16, oxygen saturation 99% in room air.  In
general, the patient was awake and alert in no acute
distress.  Head was normocephalic and atraumatic  The neck
was supple with no carotid bruits.  The heart was regular S1
and S2 without murmurs.  The lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  The abdomen was soft and nontender,
nondistended.  Extremities were without edema and without
evidence of thrombosis.  Neurologic - The patient was awake
and alert with nonfluent speech with only occasional verbal
utterances and no clear words.  She intermittently followed
midline commands.  She was unable to repeat or name.  She was
slightly less attentive on her right side.  On cranial nerve
examination, the pupils are equal, round, and reactive to
light and accommodation.  Funduscopic examination appeared
normal.  On visual fields, there was less response to threat
on her right visual field.  Extraocular movements were intact
without nystagmus.  There was a right upper motor neuron
facial palsy.  Tongue and palate were midline.  On motor
examination, there was normal bulk and tone was decreased on
the right side.  There was very minimal spontaneous movement
at the right arm and right leg.  She moved the left arm and
left leg spontaneously with good antigravity strength.  On
sensory examination, she withdraws to noxious stimuli in all
four extremities with less rapid response at the right arm
and leg as compared to the left.  She is not able to follow
commands for coordination testing.  Gait was not tested.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, complete blood count showed
white blood cell count 9.0, hematocrit 36.6, platelets
299,000.  Coagulation studies showed prothrombin time 12.0,
INR 1.0, partial thromboplastin time 27.8.  Chem7, calcium,
magnesium, phosphorus and liver function tests, amylase,
lipase were all within normal limits.  CK and troponin were
negative.

RADIOLOGIC STUDIES:  On admission as above included magnetic
resonance scan which showed the subtle area of restricted
effusion within the left corona radiata and absence of flow
within the visualized intracranial portion of the left
internal carotid artery and left middle cerebral artery on
MRA.  The vertebral basilar system and right internal carotid
artery were patent.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  After receiving intravenous TPA in the
Emergency Department, the patient was admitted to the
Neurology Intensive Care Unit. She was kept on bedrest with
head of bed under 30 degrees.  Over the following hours
following the TPA, the patient's neurologic examination was
not significantly changed.

On the morning after admission, the patient's neurologic
examination was significantly improved with increased verbal
output but with slow and effort speech as well as grammatical
and paraphasic errors.  She was able to follow commands and
point to objects.  Her motor examination was also
significantly improved with being able to lift the right arm
off the bed and with antigravity strength in right triceps.
She was able to life her right leg off the bed for under five
seconds.  The left arm and leg remained at full strength.
Right toe was found to be upgoing.

MRA of the neck was done to evaluate for carotid dissection.
This showed left internal carotid artery occluded nearly at
its origin.  The remainder of the neck arterial vasculature
was normal.  Repeat MRA of the head showed some visualization
of the M1 and M2 segments of the left middle cerebral artery
in comparison with the prior study.  This newly visualized
vasculature suggested that there had been some
revascularization.  Repeat magnetic resonance scan of the
brain showed large left basal ganglia infarct involving the
head of the left caudate nucleus, anterior limb of the left
internal capsule as well as the left lentiform nucleus.
There was no evidence of hemorrhage seen.

Transesophageal  echocardiogram was done to evaluate for any
cardiac source of emboli.  This showed no atrial septal
defect or patent foramen ovale seen by 2D, color Doppler or
saline contrast with maneuvers.  Left ventricular wall
thickness, cavity size and systolic function were normal with
left ventricular ejection fraction over 55%.  Regional left
ventricular wall motion was normal.  There was no cardiac
source of embolus seen.  The patient was started on
intravenous Heparin and Coumadin for anticoagulation therapy
for presumed carotid dissection.

The patient's neurologic status continued to improve with
continuing improvement of her aphasia and her right sided
weakness.  She was stable for transfer to the neurology floor
on [**2136-5-9**].  She remained on the intravenous Heparin and
Coumadin until her INR reached 1.9 and at that point the
intravenous Heparin was discontinued.  Her neurologic
examination continued to improve each day throughout her
hospital course.

At the time of her discharge, her neurologic examination was
significant for a transcortical motor aphasia with normal
repetition, normal comprehension and fluent speech though
with significant difficulties with naming.  The patient
described feeling frustrated at being able to think of the
words she wanted to say but not being able to say them.  The
right sided hemiparesis significantly improved to full
strength at the right deltoid, triceps, wrist extension and
finger extension, though her examination did show some motor
inattention with the right hand.  Her right leg also fully
recovered to full strength throughout.  Her sensory
examination was normal at the time of discharge.  Her right
facial droop was mild at the time of discharge.

On the day of transfer to the floor, she was seen by Speech
and Swallow and cleared for regular p.o. diet which she
tolerated well.  The patient was seen by physical therapy,
occupational therapy and speech therapy.  She did very well
with physical therapy and by the time of admission was
ambulating independently.

As above the patient's INR on discharge was 1.9.  She will
continue on Coumadin 5 mg q.h.s. with monitoring of her INR
at home.  The INR will be checked this week on Wednesday
which is two days after disc