Admission Date:  [**2108-11-9**]     Discharge Date:


Service:  [**Company 191**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 78-year-old
male with a past medical history significant for coronary
artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass graft in
[**2104**], congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction
of 26%, status post automatic internal
cardioverter-defibrillator, peripheral vascular disease,
gastroesophageal reflux disease, hypertension, question of
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, status post
cerebrovascular accident who presented with cough, shortness
of breath, and rigors.

According to the patient's family he developed a flu-like
syndrome with cough productive of phlegm.  The patient was
started by his primary care physician on Biaxin.  The patient
initially improved.  The night prior to admission the patient
developed cough, dizziness, visible rigors, chills, and
shortness of breath.  The patient presented to [**Hospital1 346**] unable to given any history and was
quickly intubated for increasing respiratory distress.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2104-12-21**].  The patient with a
catheterization in [**2105-4-20**] that revealed diffuse
3-vessel disease with a patent left internal mammary artery
to the left anterior descending artery, and saphenous vein
graft to the posterior descending artery, and an occluded
saphenous vein graft to first diagonal and first obtuse
marginal.  The patient had an ejection fraction of 26% to
27%.  He is status post automatic internal
cardioverter-defibrillator placement.  An echocardiogram in
[**2108-3-20**] revealed a moderately dilated left ventricle with
left ventricular function severely depressed and global left
ventricular hypokinesis.  There was moderate dilation of the
right ventricle with decreased function.  He has 1+ aortic
insufficiency, moderate 2+ mitral regurgitation, and 3+
tricuspid regurgitation.
2.  Peripheral vascular disease, status post aortobifemoral
bypass.
3.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
6.  Status post appendectomy.
7.  Status post cerebrovascular accident.
8.  Congestive heart failure.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lasix, digoxin, Zestril, Tegretol,
Cordarone, aspirin, metoprolol, Colace, Zantac, multivitamin.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a retired bricklayer.  He has
a 60-pack-year history of smoking.  The patient denied
alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The patient had a
blood pressure of 110/70 with a pulse of 100, a temperature
of 102.4, respiratory rate of 18, and oxygen saturation of
65% on room air.  Generally, the patient was a very
ill-appearing elderly man in respiratory distress.  Lung
examination revealed coarse rhonchi bilaterally.  Cardiac
examination evaluated distant heart sounds with no
appreciable murmur, rubs or gallops.  Abdominal examination
revealed a belly that was soft, nontender, and nondistended,
with absent bowel sounds.  Extremity examination revealed
warm extremities with decreased pulses and 1+ edema
bilaterally.  Neurologic examination revealed he withdrew to
pain in all four extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:   The patient had
white blood cell count of 7.2, hematocrit of 41.9, with 2
bands.  Digoxin level was 1.2.  INR was 1.4.  Sodium was 138,
with a potassium of 4.6, chloride of 99, bicarbonate of 16,
blood urea nitrogen of 33, creatinine of 2.2, and glucose
of 142.  Note, the patient's baseline creatinine is 1.5.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Chest x-ray revealed a right lower lobe
pneumonia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   This 79-year-old male with a significant
history of coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure,
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, status post
cerebrovascular accident presented with fevers, chills,
cough, a right lower lobe infiltrate on chest x-ray, and
progressive hypoxia, as well as hypotension and acidosis.

The patient was intubated in the Emergency Department and
rapidly transferred to the Intensive Care Unit where he was
given fluid boluses and started on dopamine for hypotension.
The patient was found to be in acute renal failure.  The
patient was initially treated with ceftriaxone and
doxycycline for his pneumonia.  After initial fluid
resuscitation the patient developed evidence of congestive
heart failure and was diuresed once he was off pressors.  The
patient was continued on ceftriaxone.  After diuresis the
patient was successfully extubated and started on tube feeds
via a nasogastric tube.  The patient was switched to p.o.
levofloxacin.  He was extubated on [**2108-11-15**].  Of
note, the patient ruled in for myocardial infarction during
his Medical Intensive Care Unit stay.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient ruled in for myocardial
infarction.  The patient with a history of severe 3-vessel
coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure with an
ejection fraction of 26% to 27%, likely experienced
congestive heart failure while in the Intensive Care Unit
secondary to aggressive volume resuscitation as well as
ischemic cardiomyopathy.

Upon arrival to the floor the patient had been receiving
intravenous fluids in order to help correct volume
contraction.  The patient developed a desaturation to the 70s
while on 35% face mask.  An arterial blood gas revealed
alkalosis.  Chest x-ray revealed congestion.  The patient was
placed on a 100% nonrebreather, given 125 mg of intravenous
Lasix, and the patient's oxygen saturation returned to 98% on
35% face mask.

Given the patient's tenuous respiratory status most likely
related to congestive heart failure, as the patient's
pneumonia was resolving, the optimal plan was to maximize the
patient's cardiovascular regimen.  The patient was started on
a low-dose ACE inhibitor captopril 6.25 mg t.i.d.   This was
gradually increased to 12.5 mg t.i.d.  The plan was to then
add carvedilol as the patient's blood pressure permitted.
The patient was maintained on the even to slightly negative
side of his volume status.  He was eventually weaned to nasal
cannula.

2.  PULMONARY:  The patient with severe community-acquired
pneumonia requiring intubation and pressors.  The patient was
initially treated with ceftriaxone and doxycycline, then
transitioned to levofloxacin for a likely course of 14 days.
His pulmonary status was complicated by episodes of
congestive heart failure related to volume resuscitation.  He
responded very well to diuresis and was gradually weaned in
his oxygen requirement.

The patient with severe community-acquired pneumonia, on
levofloxacin.  He rapidly defervesced and improved to the
point where he was weaned off pressors.

3.  NEUROLOGY:  The patient with mental status that gradually
improved after transfer from the Medical Intensive Care Unit.
There was concern regarding the patient's ability to swallow.
He was initially maintained with nasogastric tube for tube
feeds.  As his mental status improved and he became
increasingly awake he became occasionally agitated during the
evening and removed his nasogastric tube.  Speech and Swallow
evaluated the patient, and the patient failed his evaluation.
They felt that the patient had potential to recover his
swallowing ability and planned to re-evaluate him in two days
after the initial evaluation.

4.  HEMATOLOGY:  The patient with initial drop of hematocrit
upon transfer from the Intensive Care Unit to the floor.
After this his hematocrit remained stable.

5.  RENAL:  The patient presented in acute renal failure,
likely superimposed on chronic renal insufficiency.  His
elevated creatinine was thought to be secondary to poor
perfusion and volume depletion.  His creatinine began to
improve in the Medical Intensive Care Unit; although, when
the patient was aggressively diuresed his creatinine rose.
Eventually, as the patient's volume status began to
equilibrate his creatinine began to decrease.  The patient
developed hypernatremia with a calculated free water deficit
of 3.5 liters.  He was initially given D-5 quart of normal
saline at 100 