Admission Date:  [**2117-12-20**]       Discharge Date: [**2118-1-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2049-8-27**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 68-year-old man
admitted to an outside hospital on [**12-12**] after a syncope
episode.  The patient was briefly unstable hemodynamically,
requiring intubation at the scene.  He was diagnosed with E.
coli urinary tract infection, and with a right lower lobe
pneumonia.

He had periods of third degree heart block with exacerbation
of congestive heart failure and was brought to the Cardiac
Catheterization Lab.

Catheterization at the outside hospital showed three-vessel
disease with an ejection fraction of 30%. Carotid study
showed no stenosis, with mural plaques throughout.

The patient was treated with antibiotics, Lasix,
beta-blockers, Heparin, and Nitroglycerin, and was
transferred to [**Hospital6 256**] on the
19th for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Non-insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus.  Congestive heart failure.  Coronary artery
disease.  Hypercholesterolemia.  Anemia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Amaril 4 mg b.i.d., Lipitor 10 mg
q.d., Coreg 3.125 mg b.i.d.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Aspirin 62 mg q.d., Pravachol 40 mg
q.d., Lopressor 25 mg q.i.d., Hydralazine 10 mg b.i.d., Lasix
40 mg q.d., Unasyn 100 mg t.i.d., regular Insulin sliding
scale.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Remote tobacco, he quit smoking 20 years
ago, prior to that was three packs a day.  He denied alcohol
usage.  He is a retired maintenance worker.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature 98.6??????, heart
rate 77 in sinus rhythm, blood pressure 122/71, respirations
22, oxygen saturation 98% on 5 L nasal prongs.  General:  He
was alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves II-XII
grossly intact.  HEENT:  Poor dentition.  No jugular venous
distention.  No bruits.  Neck:  Supple.  Respiratory:  Clear
to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Regular, rate
and rhythm.  No murmur.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.  No masses.
Extremities:  Warm with no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.
There was 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally.

The patient was initially admitted to CT Surgery Service,
however was transferred after admission to the Medicine
Service given multiple medical problems, including E. coli
urinary tract infection, pneumonia, congestive heart failure,
acute renal failure, onset since the time of admission.

The Renal Service was also consulted given the patient's
acute renal failure, and it was decided that his coronary
artery bypass grafting should be delayed until resolution of
his acute renal dysfunction.

He was followed by Medicine and Renal Services for
approximately ten days, until on [**12-30**], he was brought
to the Operating Room at which time he underwent coronary
artery bypass grafting times three.  Please see the operative
report for full details.

In summary he had a coronary artery bypass grafting times
three with a LIMA to the left anterior descending, saphenous
vein graft to the posterior descending artery, and saphenous
vein graft to obtuse marginal.

Additionally, the patient had an intra-aortic balloon pump
placed during the surgery.  He tolerated the operation and
was transferred from the Operating Room to the Cardiothoracic
Intensive Care Unit.

At the time of transfer, the patient had Milrinone 0.5
mcg/kg/min, Lidocaine 2 mg/min, Neo-Synephrine to maintain a
mean arterial pressure of greater than 60, and Propofol for
sedation.

The patient did well in the immediate postoperative period;
however, he remained intubated and sedated on the day of his
surgery.  On postoperative day #1, the patient continued to
be hemodynamically stable.  At that time, his sedation was
discontinued.  He was weaned from the ventilator and
successfully extubated.

Additionally, the patient was weaned from his Neo-Synephrine
and his Lidocaine infusion.  His Milrinone drip was weaned to
0.125 mg, and he tolerated this well.  Following that, his
intra-aortic balloon pump was weaned to 1:2, and on
postoperative day #2, his intra-aortic balloon pump was
discontinued.

On postoperative day #2, the patient's balloon was weaned to
1:3, which was not tolerated hemodynamically.  His
intra-aortic balloon pump was returned to 1:1, and there was
no further attempts at weaning on postoperative day #2.
Following return to 1:1, the patient remained hemodynamically
stable.

On postoperative day #3, the patient's balloon was
successfully weaned and ultimately removed.  Additionally the
patient was noted to have atrial fibrillation with a
ventricular response between 90 and 120, at times becoming
hypotensive with a faster heart rate.  The patient was
restarted on the Neo-Synephrine drip at that time.

Finally on postoperative day #3, the patient's mediastinal
chest tubes were also removed.  On postoperative day #4, the
patient remained hemodynamically stable.  The remaining chest
tubes were discontinued.  His Milrinone was weaned to off,
and beta-blockade was initiated.

Following discontinuation of the Milrinone, the patient
remained hemodynamically stable throughout the next 24 hours,
and on postoperative day #6, he was transferred to the floor
for continuing postoperative care and cardiac rehabilitation.

Once on the floor, the patient was noted to have a 20+
beat-run of ventricular tachycardia.  The
Electrophysiological Service was consulted, and on
postoperative day #8, the patient was brought to the
Electrophysiology Lab for EP testing.

He was found to have inducible monomorphic ventricular
tachycardia, and a dual-chamber ICD was implanted at that
time.  Please see the Catheterization Lab EP note for full
details.

Following implantation of the ICD, the patient was returned
to the floor for continuing postoperative care.

Over the next several days, the patient's creatinine again
trended upward to a high of 3.5.  The Renal Service was
reconsulted, and from that point forward, the patient was
followed by the Renal Service, as well as Electrophysiology
and Cardiothoracic Surgery.

Over the next several days, the patient had an uneventful
postoperative course.  Following discontinuation of all
nephrotoxic medications, including Lasix, the patient's
creatinine trended slowly trended down.

On postoperative day #12, it was decided that the patient was
stable and ready to be discharged home.

DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature
97.5??????, heart rate 73 in sinus rhythm, blood pressure 105/63,
respirations 20, oxygen saturation 96% on room air, weight
preoperatively 172 lbs, discharge 164 lbs.  General:  The
patient was alert and oriented times three.  He moves all
extremities and follows commands.  Chest:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Regular, rate and
rhythm.  S1 and S2.  Sternum stable.  Incision with
Steri-Strips, open to air, clean and dry.  Left shoulder
incision also with Steri-Strips, clean and dry.  Dry sterile
dressings intact.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.
Normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  Warm and well
perfused with no edema.  Right saphenous vein graft harvest
site open to air, clean and dry.

DISCHARGE LABORATORY DATA:  White count 6.6, hematocrit 27.1,
platelet count 276; sodium 139, potassium 4.1, chloride 102,
CO2 27, BUN 31, creatinine 2.9, glucose 61.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg q.d., Carvedilol 3.125
mg b.i.d., Hydralazine 10 mg q.6 hours, Atorvastatin 10 mg
q.d., Aldactone 25 mg q.d., Amaril 4 mg q.d., Percocet 5/325
[**12-3**] tab q.4-6 hours p.r.n.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass grafting times three with a LIMA to the left anterior
descending, saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending
artery, saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal II,
2,  postoperative atrial fibrillation and ventricular
tachycardia status post automatic implantable cardiovascular
defibrillator placement.
3.  Resolving acute renal failure.
4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
5.  Anemia.
6.  Diabetes mellitus type 2.
7.  Anemia.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  T