Admission Date:  [**2109-4-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2109-4-29**]


Service:  ICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  An 82-year-old female with hypotension.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was admitted on
[**2109-4-23**] with a complaint of chest pain that woke her
from sleep.

The patient went to dialysis where she experienced chest pain
again.  It was thought at this time that it might be
secondary to a pericarditis.  The patient also had an episode
of bradycardia while on dialysis and was noted to have a left
fistula clotted.

The patient was previously admitted with atrial fibrillation
and treated with diltiazem and propafenone.  The patient had
a CT angiogram which was negative for aortic dissection and
significant for a stable pericardial effusion.  The patient
also ruled out for a myocardial infarction with negative
creatine kinases and troponins.

The patient had thrombolysis of her fistula on [**4-24**].  The
patient was also evaluated by Endocrinology for a low
thyroid-stimulating hormone, low free T4, and low T3.  It was
thought at this time the patient was suffering from Secu
thyroid syndrome.

On [**2109-4-27**], dialysis was stopped for hypotension.  An
echocardiogram on [**4-29**] showed an ejection fraction of
greater than 55%, moderate-to-large pericardial effusion.  No
tamponade.  Medical Intensive Care Unit was called to
evaluate the patient with systolic blood pressure in the low
70s.  Blood pressure had been trending downward since
[**2109-4-26**]; and at baseline, the patient had a systolic
blood pressure range of greater than 130.

The patient currently denied abdominal pain or chest pain.
The patient did note some shortness of breath.  No nausea or
vomiting, and reportedly was lightheaded when attempting to
sit up.  The patient did not have any evidence of bleeding
from the gastrointestinal tract, and currently was not making
any urine.  The patient was started on vancomycin and
levofloxacin empirically and a bolus of 750 cc of normal
saline.  The patient was then admitted to the [**Hospital Ward Name 332**]
Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  End-stage renal disease.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with an FEV1
of 0.55, FEV1:FVC ratio of 75% or predicted.
3.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Known pericardial effusion.
6.  Status post cholecystectomy.
7.  Atrial fibrillation.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN and SULFA (which cause a rash).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications in the hospital were
heparin subcutaneous, Zantac 150 mg intravenously q.d.,
Nephrocaps one tablet p.o. q.d., Sevelamer 2400 mg p.o.
t.i.d., aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d., lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d.,
salmeterol 1 to 2 puffs p.o. b.i.d., propafenone 150 mg p.o.
t.i.d., ipratropium 2 puffs q.i.d., APAP 325/150 mg p.o.
q.d., albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers as needed.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father with [**Name2 (NI) 499**] cancer.  Family history of
renal disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her husband.  A 65-pack-year
history.  Occasional ethanol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Vital signs revealed
temperature was 97, heart rate was 87, blood pressure
was 74/palp, respiratory rate was 16, 95% on 1 liters.  In
general, the patient was a pleasant/elderly female in no
apparent distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
revealed mucous membranes were dry.  Neck revealed no jugular
venous distention appreciated.  Cardiovascular with an
irregularly irregular heart rate.  No murmurs, rubs or
gallops.  Pulmonary revealed diffuse wheezes bilaterally at
the bases.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  Extremities revealed no clubbing, cyanosis or
edema.  Neurologically, alert and oriented times three.
Cranial nerves II through XII were intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Data revealed
white blood cell count was 13.3 (increased from 9.2),
hematocrit was 31.2, platelets were 364.  PT was 59.6.
Chemistry-7 was remarkable for creatinine of 4.3, blood urea
nitrogen was 28, sodium was 144, bicarbonate was 25.  Calcium
was 10.1, magnesium was 5.2, phosphate was 2.1.  Arterial
blood gas revealed 7.32/47/82, lactate of 1.4.  Blood
cultures were pending times two.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram revealed atrial
fibrillation at 91 beats per minute, left axis deviation.  No
ST-T wave changes.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  In summary, this was an 82-year-old
female with a history of end-stage renal disease, pericardial
effusion (without tamponade physiology), and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, who presented with
hypotension.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  It was thought at this time the etiology
was most likely multifactorial; however, given an increase in
white blood cell count, concern for sepsis was high, and the
patient was given empiric antibiotic coverage.  It was also
thought that the patient should have a repeat echocardiogram
to assess for tamponade; however, it was less likely that
tamponade was causing hypotension secondary to lack of
tamponade physiology.

The patient was maintained with aggressive fluid hydration
and multiple intravenous fluid boluses.  On the morning of
[**4-29**], the patient was found unresponsive, and there was a
question if initial neurologic examination showed a left
hemineglect.  A heparin drip had been started the day
previous for atrial fibrillation.  The patient was emergently
intubated and was minimally responsive.  The patient appeared
to be in a junctional rhythm at 60 beats per minute on
telemetry.  After dopamine and bicarbonate were given, the
patient reverted back to a normal sinus rhythm at 60 beats
per minute.  On examination, it was noted that the patient's
extremities were cold and clammy.

The patient had an arterial blood gas which showed worsening
acidemia with a pH of 7.2, PCO2 of 242, and PO2 of 415 on
100%, lactate had increased to 3.9.  The patient also had a
blood urea nitrogen of 36 and a creatinine which had
increased to 5.1.

It was thought at this time that the patient's heart rhythm
was most likely secondary to a major metabolic insult.  It
was still debated as to whether tamponade was contributing to
hypotension.  There was also concern that the patient was on
a heparin drip and demonstrated possible left hemineglect.
The heparin was discontinued, and the patient was scheduled
to have a CT scan of her head to rule out bleed.  However,
the patient was never hemodynamically stable enough to be
sent to the CT scanner.  The patient was continued on a
dopamine drip and propafenone was also continued at this
time.

On [**2109-4-29**] (at 9:45 p.m.), the patient became
bradycardic and hypotensive again.  She was noted to have a
blood pressure of 39/palp, and a heart rate of 45.  The
patient was given 1 mg of atropine, and 1 mg of epinephrine,
and intravenous fluids.  The patient's rhythm then changed to
asystolic cardiac arrest.

Chest compressions were initiated. The patient was given 2 mg
more of atropine and epinephrine and 1 ampule of bicarbonate.
The chest compressions continued, and rhythm changed to
coarse ventricular fibrillation.  The patient was shocked in
succession times three without rhythm.  Cardiopulmonary
resuscitation was then re-initiated.  Examination revealed
bilateral breath sounds.  The patient was given another
milligram of atropine.  Epinephrine, bicarbonate, dopamine,
and Levophed were wide opened; and intravenous fluids were
placed wide open.

The patient was thought to be hyperkalemic and given calcium
carbonate, D-50 saline; repeat potassium was 4.4.  The
patient returned from a normal sinus rhythm to ventricular
tachycardia for approximately 15 minutes, and blood pressure
increased.  Pressors were weaned.  An emergent Cardiology
consultation for a repeat echocardiogram was called.

The patient's rhythm changed again asystole, and pressors
were restarted, and atropine was given.  Emergent
pericardiocentesis with 50 cc to 60 cc of venous blood,
not clotted, returned without hemodynamic response.  The
patient remainder in asystole, and the patient was pronounced
dead at 9:25 p.m.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Expired.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  End-stage renal failure.
2.  Possible sepsis complicated by profound h