Admission Date:  [**2101-9-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2101-9-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2036-5-10**]       Sex:  F

Service:  INTERNAL MEDICINE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 65-year-old woman with
known chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary
function tests never obtained, admitted to the medical
intensive care unit for a chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease exacerbation and with suspicion of congestive heart
failure.  The patient was status post multiple respiratory
issues in the past few months secondary to chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  In early [**Month (only) 216**] she had had a
residual bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, she was status post pneumonia, she was placed on
Levaquin and a prednisone taper earlier this month.  In [**2101-8-1**] the patient had a pneumonia requiring Solu-Medrol and a
prednisone taper as well as Levaquin.  The patient also has
questionable obstructive sleep apnea although there is no
record of a sleep study.  The patient has a baseline oxygen
requirement of two liters of home O2 as well as BiPAP every
night.  The patient was transferred from the medical
intensive care unit to the floor because of increased
respiratory function, and she was thus ready for weaning off
of high-dose steroids as well as for continuation of her
pulmonary and cardiac work-up.  There was a question as to
whether or not there were EKG changes when the patient
presented to the Emergency Department, together with some
hypertension.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease diagnosed three years ago, no pulmonary function
tests.  2. Asthma with allergic rhinitis.  3.
Hypercholesterolemia.  4. Pneumonia x 2 since [**8-5**]. Cor
pulmonale.  6. Glaucoma.  7. Question of obstructive sleep
apnea with no sleep study.  8. Asymptomatic gallstones.

MEDICATIONS:  1. Atorvastatin 10 mg p.o. q.d.  2. Albuterol
nebulizers q. 6 hours and p.r.n.  3. Ipratropium nebulizers
q. 6 hours and p.r.n.  4. Methylprednisolone 60 mg IV q. 8
hours.  5. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.  6. Nitroglycerin drip.
7. Azithromycin 500 x 1 and 250 x 4 days.  8. Ceftriaxone one
gram IV q.d.  9. Metronidazole cream to face.  10. Lasix 10
mg IV x one.  11. Spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs stable, afebrile, oxygen
saturation 94% on two liters BiPAP.  General:  No apparent
distress.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic, extraocular
movements intact, mucous membranes moist.  Neck:  No jugular
venous distension.  Chest:  Inspiratory and expiratory
wheezing diffusely, poor air movement at the bases, no rales.
Cardiovascular:  2/6 systolic murmur at the upper left
sternal border, regular rate and rhythm.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended, bowel sounds positive x 4.
Extremities:  Mild peripheral edema in the lower extremities,
no cyanosis or clubbing.  Neurologic:  Nonfocal.

LABORATORY DATA:  The patient's white count was 20.2,
hematocrit 44, platelet count 204, coagulation studies
included a PT of 14.8, INR 1.5 and a PTT of 31.3.
Chemistries were normal with the exception of bicarbonate of
31 and a glucose of 154.  Liver function tests were normal.
Urinalysis was negative for infection.  Urine culture and
blood culture were negative.  An initial arterial blood gas
was 7.24, 36, 68, 21.  Cardiac enzymes were negative x 3.
Fasting lipid profile in [**Month (only) 116**] revealed no
hypercholesterolemia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was placed on BiPAP in the
medical intensive care unit as well as Solu-Medrol,
antibiotics for presumed pneumonia, Lasix for presumed
congestive heart failure, aspirin for rule out myocardial
infarction.  The patient improved clinically with return to
baseline EKG and saturations of around 90% on 30% O2.  Her
cardiac enzymes were negative.  She had a negative CT for
pulmonary embolus.  She had a negative echocardiogram for new
abnormalities.  The CT of the chest did reveal a left lower
lobe pleural nodule measuring 5 mm as well as ground glass
opacity in the right upper lobe and mucous plugging of the
right lobe posteriorly.

While in house the patient was continued on a steroid taper.
She was switched from Solu-Medrol to prednisone.  She was
continued on her albuterol and ipratropium nebulizers as well
as puffers.  She was continued on her cardiovascular and
medical regimen.  She was continued on her antibiotics.  She
was prophylaxed for deep venous thrombosis with heparin
subcutaneous.  She was also on Protonix for reflux
prophylaxis as well as laxatives for constipation
prophylaxis.

At the time of discharge the patient's white count was down
to 12.4, she was saturating 97% on two liters, and the
decision was made to send the patient home on a steroid taper
as well as continued antibiotics, continued BiPAP, and
activity as tolerated.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Fair.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home.

FOLLOW UP:  The patient is to follow up in two weeks with her
primary care physician.





                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1211**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1212**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1595**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2102-5-3**]  11:47
T:  [**2102-5-3**]  12:15
JOB#:  [**Job Number 13832**]
