Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 107586**]
Admission Date: [**2177-6-24**]
Discharge Date: [**2177-8-4**]
Sex:  M
Service:  CSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Vocal hoarseness and dysphagia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 107587**] is an 84-year-old
man with hoarseness and left vocal cord paralysis. Chest x-
ray revealed a mediastinal mass. A CT showed density at the
aortic arch just distal to the left subclavian consistent
with a thoracic aneurysm. He had a catheterization done in
[**2177-5-10**] that showed an EF of 60%, a 40% LAD, 95% RCA
ostial and 60% distal. Aortogram showed an irregular arch
with an aneurysm which was not well seen.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hypertension,
depression, syncope, vocal hoarseness with left cord
paralysis, and sinus surgery.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Hydrochlorothiazide 25 daily, enalapril
20 daily.

ALLERGIES:  He is intolerant to indapamide and atenolol.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

OCCUPATION:  Retired small engine mechanic.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Tobacco: Quit at age 50. Smoked for 20 years
prior to that. Lives alone. No heavy alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  Pulse is 54, blood pressure is 165/79,
respiratory rate 20. Height is 5 feet, 8 inches, weight is
122 pounds. General: Is in no acute distress. Skin is
scattered excoriated areas in the right leg and foot. HEENT
is unremarkable. Neck is supple. Chest is clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Heart is regular rate and rhythm
without murmur. Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended with
normoactive bowel sounds. Extremities are warm and well
perfused with no edema, no varicosities. Neuro is grossly
intact on focal exam. Pulses: Femoral 2+ bilaterally,
dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial 1+ bilaterally, and
radial is 2+ bilaterally. No carotid bruits.

LABS:  White count 8.8, hematocrit 41.9, platelets 339. INR
is 1.0. Sodium 135, potassium 4.8, chloride 97, CO2 25, BUN
20, creatinine 1.1. AST 22, alkaline phosphatase 68, total
bilirubin 1, albumin 3.8.

EKG is sinus rhythm at a rate of 61 with LVH.

Chest x-ray: With a known thoracic aneurysm, no CHF.

UA is negative.

Echocardiogram showed a normal EF with 1+ AR, no MR, 1+ TR,
aortic root that was mildly dilated, ascending aorta that is
also mildly dilated with [**Doctor First Name **] PA pressures, no pericardial
effusion.

Carotid studies showed less than 40% stenosis on the right
and less than 40% stenosis on the left with antegrade flow in
both vertebrals.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was a direct admission to the
operating room on [**6-24**] where he underwent an aortic-to-
innominate bypass with a 12 mm Dacron graft, a TAG stent
placed across the aortic arch, and a coronary artery bypass
with saphenous vein graft to the LAD. The bypass time was 99
minutes with a crossclamp time of 66 minutes. Patient
tolerated the procedure and was transferred from the
operating room to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit with
a mean arterial pressure of 82 in a sinus rhythm at 88 beats
per minute.

At that time, he was on Neo-Synephrine and propofol infusion.
He also had a lumbar drain placed that was kept at the time
of transfer. Patient did well in the immediate postoperative
period. He remained hemodynamically stable throughout the day
of surgery, but did remain sedated throughout that 1st
operative day. On the morning of postoperative day 1, the
patient continued to be hemodynamically stable. His sedation
was discontinued, and he was weaned from the ventilator,
unsuccessfully extubated. Additionally, the patient's lumbar
drain was also removed.

Throughout the day the patient was noted to have frequent
periods of atrial fibrillation which required continued Neo-
Synephrine drip to maintain adequate blood pressure. Patient
remained hemodynamically stable on postoperative day 2;
although, did continue to require Neo-Synephrine for his
blood pressure. He had a bedside swallow evaluation on bed 2
and failed; and therefore, was kept NPO at that time.
Additionally, the patient's chest tubes were removed on
postoperative day 2.

On day 3, the patient was hemodynamically stable. By then, he
had weaned off his Neo-Synephrine drip. He remained in sinus
rhythm, and he was transferred from the ICU to the cardiac
stepdown floor for continuing postoperative care and cardiac
rehabilitation. It should be noted that the patient was
placed on amiodarone for his intermittent episodes of atrial
fibrillation.

Over the next several days, the patient did well. His
activity level was increased with the assistance of the
nursing staff. Patient did well once on the floor. It was
noted on postoperative day 5 that the patient had an
edematous left upper arm. He had a duplex scan that showed a
DVT and therefore, he was begun on heparin as well as
Coumadin at that time.

On postoperative day 7, the patient complained of acute onset
chest pain as well as tachypnea and diaphoresis with
associated hypotension. His physical exam at the time was
unremarkable. He was given a liter of saline which helped to
improve his blood pressure. Cardiology consult was obtained
at that time. An echocardiogram done showed a lateral
hypokinesis with a pericardial effusion. He, additionally,
had some lateral EKG changes. He was brought to the
catheterization lab, where a cardiac catheterization showed
that his coronaries were all patent and his pericardial
effusion was drained following which he was transferred to
the cardiothoracic ICU for continued monitoring.

During the night of postoperative day 7, the patient went
into a cardiac arrest with a rhythm that was PEA. He was
intubated and resuscitated with multiple shocks ultimately
ending up on dobutamine, epinephrine, and Neo-Synephrine. The
following morning the patient was brought to CAT scan, where
it was discovered that the patient had a leak at the
anastomosis of his aortic-to-innominate bypass graft, and he
was brought emergently to the operating room where he
underwent a mediastinal exploration and repair of the
proximal aortic-to-innominate anastomosis as well as
evacuation of right and left pleural hematomas. He tolerated
this well and was transferred from the operating room to the
cardiothoracic intensive care unit.

At the time of transfer, he was on Neo-Synephrine at 0.3,
dobutamine at 5 mcg per kilogram per minute, and propofol at
30 mcg per kilogram per minute with a heart rate of 62, sinus
rhythm and a mean arterial pressure of 54. Patient remained
hemodynamically stable throughout that surgical day.

On postoperative day 1, he continued to be hemodynamically
stable. His dobutamine wean was begun. His propofol was
weaned to off. The ventilator was weaned, and the patient was
successfully extubated. Patient did go back into atrial
fibrillation during the course of postoperative day 1 from
his 2nd surgery. On day 2, he was begun to be diuresed.

Over the next several days, the patient struggled from a
pulmonary standpoint working to bring up thick secretions and
ultimately on postoperative days 13 and 5, he was reintubated
for respiratory distress. It should be noted that following
the patient's 2nd surgery, he also had worsening renal
function with a creatinine that got as high as 2.7 and a BUN
in the 70s. The renal service was consulted. Patient was
gently hydrated and ultimately diuresed. Additionally, he was
treated for a Pseudomonas pneumonia at that time.

By postoperative days 17 and 9, it was felt that the patient
may be able to be weaned again from the ventilator which was
therefore weaned, and patient was again extubated on
postoperative days 20 and 12. He, again, struggled from a
pulmonary standpoint for several days.

On postoperative days 22 and 14, the patient had a PEG
placed. Again, for several days, the patient struggled from a
pulmonary standpoint, but remained extubated. He did not
tolerate his tube feeds during this period of time.

On postoperative day 27, he was brought to the interventional
radiology suite to have a Dobbhoff placed through his
existing PEG to try to advance to a postpyloric tube. This
maneuver failed and ultimately, his PEG was lost during the
procedure following which he was brought emergently to the
operating room where he u