Admission Date:  [**2170-3-2**]     Discharge Date:  [**2170-3-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2103-11-27**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MEDICAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT/[**Hospital1 **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 66-year-old female
with a history of diabetes and hypertension with a resultant
end-stage renal disease who recently has had fatigue and
coughing spells making it hard for her to catch her breath,
with fevers and chills and dark sputum for one week.  Not
feeling well, she missed her dialysis appointment for
Wednesday, [**2-28**].  On [**3-2**] in the a.m. she had
acute shortness of breath without chest pain and Emergency
Medical Service was called.  She was intubated in the field
and taken to the Emergency Room.

There, she had hypertension to 215/120.  She was treated with
intravenous nitroglycerin, enalapril, MSO4, aspirin, and
admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.  She was treated
with her Cardizem and Lopressor which was increased to 75 mg
b.i.d. and Isordil.  She was also given a dose of Lasix and
hydralazine.  Initial electrocardiogram changes with ST
elevations in V2 to V3 were attributed to her underlying
congestive heart failure by Cardiology.  Her creatine kinase
and troponin were negative.  She underwent ultrafiltration
later that day with removal of 4.2 kg.  Later on her first
day, she did have some chest pain responsive to morphine, but
her electrocardiogram had normalized.  An electrocardiogram
was done which showed her ejection fraction had fallen from
previously normal to 25%.  She had an episode of flash
pulmonary edema on [**3-2**] in the p.m.

On [**3-3**] she had another ultrafiltration for 3 kg with
plans to resume regular schedule thereafter.  She was
extubated after ultrafiltration after one failed attempt
earlier.  She also had several episodes of chest pain with ST
elevations in V2 to V3 on the electrocardiogram, treated with
nitroglycerin and Lopressor, and the pain resolved.  The team
then felt the chest pain was related to traumatic intubation
more than angina, as it is present only when she coughs.  The
cough precedes the chest pain, and the chest pain goes away
with the cough, and the pain is present substernally up to
her throat.  She has had a bit of colored sputum attributed
to traumatic intubation with mild hemoptysis.  She had
low-grade temperatures thought secondary to possible
aspiration and got one dose of zithromycin on [**3-4**].
Intravenous nitroglycerin was weaned off to her home Isordil.
With increased phosphate, Renal recommended checking PTH and
starting Amphojel 30 cc t.i.d. while in house which was done.

She was transferred to the floor on [**2170-3-4**].  At
that time she denied fevers, chills, night sweats.  Neck and
chest were sore, sharp, and achy but improving.  The pain had
been on and off for one week and was [**6-8**] in intensity but
only hurt with cough.  The patient did not remember what her
myocardial infarction pain was like.  Both shoulders were
chronically achy.  She did have shortness of breath while
coughing.  There was no nausea, vomiting, or diaphoresis.
When not coughing, the patient felt baseline breathing.  She
had brown diarrhea.  No melena or blood.  This is a chronic
condition for her.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes with retinopathy and nephropathy and
neuropathy.
2.  End-stage renal disease secondary to diabetes mellitus
and hypertension; dialyzed on Monday, Wednesday and Friday
for five years.
3.  Coronary artery disease, status post anterior myocardial
infarction in [**2158**]; last catheterization in [**2158**] showed 100%
right coronary artery with collaterals from distant
circumflex and right coronary artery, 80% left anterior
descending artery, and 64% ejection fraction, moderate
diastolic dysfunction with increased filling pressures.  An
echocardiogram in [**2166**] had an ejection fraction preserved
with mild left atrial enlargement and mild-to-moderate mitral
regurgitation.
4.  Cerebrovascular accident in [**2158**] with occasional
word-finding difficulties as only deficit.
5.  Peripheral vascular disease.
6.  Cholecystectomy and total abdominal hysterectomy.
7.  Loop graft for hemodialysis in [**2165-5-30**].
8.  Cervical spondylosis, status post multiple discectomies.
9.  Chronic diarrhea; the patient does not recall workup, on
Lomotil.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at home include
Calcitriol 0.25 mcg p.o. q.d., isosorbide/Isordil 10 mg p.o.
t.i.d., meclizine 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n.,
metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., Nephrocaps 1 tablet p.o. q.d.,
Zoloft 100 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.,
Cardizem 180 mg p.o. q.d., Celebrex 100 mg p.o. p.r.n.,
Renagel 4000 mg t.i.d., hydroxyzine 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. to
t.i.d. p.r.n., Lomotil 2.5 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n., Ativan 1 mg
p.o. q.h.s., Epogen 3500 units at hemodialysis, quinine
sulfate 260 mg p.o. q.h.s.

ALLERGIES:  ACE INHIBITOR causes cough.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history was noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in her daughter's house
with her son-in-law.  She has been getting [**Hospital6 1587**] but not recently.  She denies ethanol and
tobacco.  She has been leaning on others to do things for her
recently.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature of 98.8,
pulse 120, blood pressure 215/120, oxygen saturation 100%,
respiratory rate 24.  An elderly female, intubated, alert and
oriented.  Extraocular movements were intact.  Pupils were
equal, round, and reactive to light.  Cranial nerves II
through XII were intact except for her pupils.  The
oropharynx was clear.  Mucous membranes were moist.
Cardiovascular revealed she was tachycardic with a regular
rhythm, with an first heart sound and second heart sound and
third heart sound without murmurs or rubs.  Lungs had
bilateral rales.  No wheezing on rhonchi.  The abdomen
revealed normal active bowel sounds, soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  No masses.  Extremities revealed no cyanosis,
clubbing or edema, warm with good dorsalis pedis pulses.
Strength was 5/5 times four.  Sensation was slightly
decreased in the lower extremities with diabetic neuropathy,
dysesthesia when extubated today (on Sunday).  She was unsure
of the month, place was [**Hospital1 69**].
She had a slight tremor of tongue and jaw.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Admission
laboratories revealed white blood cell count of 18.8,
hematocrit of 40, platelets of 288.  Differential was
unrevealing.  Chem-7 was notable for blood urea nitrogen
of 73, creatinine 11.4, glucose 239.  Phosphate 6.2.  Anion
gap 21.  Coagulations were normal.  Creatine kinase of 43,
troponin of less than 0.3.  Arterial blood gas was
7.08/56/103/17/-14.  On next arterial blood gas pH had
improved to 7.27.   Blood cultures were no growth to date
times two.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray showed endotracheal tube and
nasogastric tube in place with heart size at the upper limits
of normal, diffuse bilateral opacities more focal in the
right perihilar regions, small effusions, right chronic
hemidiaphragm elevation.

Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 98 with a
normal axis, a Q wave in V2 to V3, with poor R wave
progression until V4 with ST elevations in V2 to V3 and ST
depressions in II and V5 to V6.

Echocardiogram showed 25% ejection fraction, moderate
symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy, global hypokinesis,
no valve disease.

Repeat chest x-ray revealed much decreased edema from the
first with a small right pleural effusion, left CPA not seen.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  RENAL/FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION/VOLUME:  She had a
volume-related congestive heart failure episode managed by
further hemodialysis.  However, after [**3-6**] after
receiving a total of 8.4 kg removed at hemodialysis she had
blood pressures dropping to the systolic of 70s and received
two 250-cc boluses.  While she was in the hospital Amphojel
was added to control PO4.  A PTH was sent and was pending.
Calcitriol, and Renagel, Tums, Nephrocaps were continued.  A
new dry weight was being set at hemodialysis.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  On transfer from the Medical Intensive
Care Unit she had a creatine kinase of 387 with a negative