Admission Date:  [**2181-9-1**]       Discharge Date:  [**2181-9-8**]


Service:  MICU A

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 83-year-old
male with multiple medical problems, including congestive
heart failure with an ejection fraction of 20%, end stage
renal disease requiring hemodialysis, diabetes Type 2,
coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass
graft, and status post replacement of left hip.  The patient
presented to the Emergency Department on the [**2-1**]
after being noted by his caretakers at [**Name (NI) 582**] Rehabilitation
Home to have decreased mental status and lethargy per wife
and per caregivers at the [**Name (NI) 582**] Rehabilitation facility.
The patient was also desaturating on room air into the 70%
range, and was brought into the Emergency Department for
evaluation.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was found on
examination to have grossly melanotic stools, which were
guaiac positive.  A hematocrit drop was also noted in the
Emergency Department from 37.7, the patient's baseline, to
19.3.  Also of note, the patient had a supratherapeutic INR
of 4.2.  He was on deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis status
post a left hip replacement.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was transfused
packed red blood cells, was given fresh frozen plasma,
vitamin K, and DDAVP.  He was transferred to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for further management.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  In the Medical Intensive Care Unit,
the patient was noted to have vital signs of a temperature of
96.8, blood pressure 110/47, pulse 110, respiratory rate 18,
oxygen saturation 96% on 6 liters by nasal cannula.  He was
found to be an elderly gentleman, chronically ill-appearing,
with a flat affect.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat
examination:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light and
accommodation.  There was no lymphadenopathy, and the neck
was supple. On heart examination, he was noted to have a
systolic ejection murmur, II/VI, at the right upper sternal
border.  Lung examination:  Decreased breath sounds at the
bases, with soft crackles.  Abdomen:  Soft, tender to deep
palpation, with positive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  There
was no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  On neurological
examination, the patient was irritable, but was alert and
oriented x 3. He was unable to follow commands.  Rectal
examination showed black stool that was guaiac positive.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 8.3, hematocrit 19.3, platelets
459. Chemistries:  Sodium 141, potassium 4.5, chloride 104,
bicarbonate 24, BUN 65, creatinine 4.7, with a blood sugar of
166.  The patient's first troponin came back elevated at 26.
Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia with a rate of
118, right axis, right bundle branch block, a Q wave in the
inferior leads, and ST depressions in the anterior and
lateral leads.  A chest x-ray was done that showed a
perihilar haziness and early signs of cardiac heart failure.

ASSESSMENT:  The patient had a gastrointestinal bleed and was
experiencing cardiac demand ischemia secondary to hypotension
and anemia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On the morning of the 28th, the patient
required intubation for respiratory failure secondary to
cardiac failure.

1.  Cardiovascular:  The patient required pressors to
maintain adequate blood pressure from the 27th until the
30th.  The patient was first placed on dopamine, but became
tachycardiac, so was switched to Neo-Synephrine, which was
then switched to Levophed.  The patient did have active
ischemia, however, after consulting with Cardiology and
discussing treatment options, it was decided not to
anticoagulate the patient as he had an active
gastrointestinal bleed.  The patient was placed on aspirin as
part of a cardiac regimen, however, he was not started on a
beta blocker or an ACE inhibitor with the issue of
hypotension.  As stated, the pressors were discontinued on
the 30th, and the patient maintained adequate pressure with
systolic pressures 100 and above, and was transferred to the
floor with a stable cardiac status.  His troponin level did
continue to decline to a level of 12.  It had risen to above
50.

2.  Renal:  The patient was started on CVVH dialysis as it
was felt by Renal that he could not tolerate hemodialysis
because of his hypotension and need for pressure support.  He
received CVVH on the 29th, and then he received hemodialysis
on the 31st and again on the 2nd, prior to his discharge from
the Medical Intensive Care Unit to the floor. He remained
stable from a renal standpoint.

3.  Pulmonary:  The patient was intubated, as stated
previously, on the morning of the 28th.  He was weaned and
extubated on the [**2-5**], did very well from a pulmonary
standpoint, maintaining saturations of 97 to 100% on 2 liters
nasal cannula status post extubation.

4.  Gastrointestinal:  The Gastroenterology fellow was very
involved in the patient's care.  It was decided not to scope
the patient during this acute illness, as he was unstable
clinically.  Gastroenterology has already made plans to
follow up with the patient on an outpatient basis.  The
patient's hematocrit remained stable throughout his stay in
the Medical Intensive Care Unit.  He still had guaiac
positive stools, but was not actively bleeding.

5.  Infectious Disease:  The patient remained afebrile during
his course.  He never had an elevated white blood count.
Blood cultures did come back with bacterium diphtheroids,
which was felt to be a contaminant.  Sputum cultures came
back with methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus,
however, this was felt to be a colonization secondary to
intubation, as the patient had no white count, again was
afebrile, clinically showed no signs of pulmonary infection,
and had no evidence of an infiltrate on chest x-ray.  The
patient was placed on methicillin resistant staphylococcus
aureus precautions.

6.  Neurology:  The patient was noticed to have decreased
attention and a flat affect on initial presentation to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.  After being intubated, this
obviously could not be assessed.  Once the patient was
extubated on the 31st, he had much improvement in his mental
status.  He was alert and oriented x 3, able to respond to
commands appropriately, able to carry on abbreviated
conversations.

7.  Endocrine:  The patient is a known diabetic.  He takes
oral Glyburide as an outpatient.  While in the Unit, he was
maintained on a regular insulin sliding scale and did well on
this.

8.  Nutrition:  The patient was initially nothing by mouth.
When the bleeding was stabilized, the patient was placed on
tube feeds.  After extubation, the patient tolerated oral
intake very well, eating three meals a day before he was
transferred to the floor.  The patient was prophylaxed with
Protonix intravenously, and then Prevacid per nasogastric
tube.  He was also given heparin subcutaneously.

9.  Code status:  Full.  A discussion was held with the
entire Medical Intensive Care Unit team, including the
attending, myself, resident, and the patient's wife,
regarding the patient's code status on the [**1-6**].
Also a social worker was present.  The goal of this meeting
was to make sure the wife understood the grave nature of the
[**Hospital 228**] medical status and each medical issue was discussed
in depth with the patient's wife so that she had a good
understanding of his cardiovascular status, his renal status,
his pulmonary status, etc.  Code status was addressed as to
what the patient's wife thought the patient would want.  The
patient's wife believed that the patient would wish to remain
full code, however, the patient's wife will discuss code
status again with the social worker and with the rest of her
extended family, including nieces and nephews who are
involved in the patient's care along with the wife.

DISPOSITION:  The patient was transferred to CC7, [**Apartment Address(1) 104007**],
on the [**1-7**].  The patient is to be discharged on the
[**1-8**] to [**Location (un) 582**] facility in [**Location (un) 620**], [**State 350**].

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  End stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis
2.  Heart failure
3.  Diabetes





            