Admission Date:  [**2151-7-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2151-8-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2133-4-7**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Gram-negative sepsis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 18-year-old
male with no significant past medical history aside from an
"innocent" heart murmur diagnosed as a child.  He was in his
usual state of health until six days prior to admission when
he began experiencing a sore throat.

Three days prior to admission, he began experiencing fever,
chills, malaise, sweats, and right sided chest pain.  Twelve
days prior to admission, the patient had been to the dentist
and had work done on his teeth.  The patient went to his PCP
three days prior to admission and was diagnosed with
mononucleosis.  At that time he had a white blood cell count
of 26.  The patient continued to feel poorly with shortness
of breath, chest pain, cough, and fever.

Two days prior to admission, the patient presented to [**Hospital1 51631**] Hospital, where a chest x-ray showed a possible
pneumonia.  The patient was started on azithromycin and
ceftriaxone.  He was noted to have a fever of 103.  He was
admitted to [**Hospital 1562**] Hospital, where a followup chest CT scan
showed septic emboli bilaterally.  Followup blood cultures
grew 4/4 bottles of gram-positive cocci identified as group-C
Strep and one bottle grew gram-negative rods consistent with
fusobacterium.  The patient was given Vancomycin, Zosyn, and
clindamycin.  The patient continued to be dyspneic, and was
transferred from [**Hospital 1562**] Hospital to the [**Hospital1 346**] Emergency Department at 2 am on [**7-24**].

On arrival in the Emergency Department, the patient's
temperature was 99.8, his blood pressure was 112/45, heart
rate 133, respiratory rate was 30, and he was sating 96% on
room air.  In the Emergency Department, he was put on 6
liters of oxygen and then continued to [**Last Name (LF) **], [**First Name3 (LF) **] was put on
100% nonrebreather mask.  His arterial blood gas showed a pH
of 7.33, a pCO2 of 52, a pAO2 of 210.  Chest x-ray showed
bilateral effusions with right greater than left and a
density of the right lung base.

Echocardiogram was done for the concern of possible septic
endocarditis which showed a thickened pulmonic valve and a
possible vegetation.  No PDA.  Left ventricular function was
globally depressed with the left ventricular ejection
fraction of 45-50%.  The patient underwent thoracentesis in
the Emergency Room and pleural fluid showed a severe
parapneumonic effusion with a pH of 7.17, white blood cell
count of 2,350, a LDH of 2,860.

The patient's breathing remained labored in the Emergency
Room and the decision was made to intubate the patient.
Followup chest CT scan showed a possible right upper lobe
pleural based opacity consistent with a septic embolus in the
lung.  Blood cultures from [**Hospital1 1562**] revealed gram-negative
rods anaerobic bottle thought to be fusobacterium.

Leg pain and swelling along with the fusobacterium raise
concern for internal jugular thrombus leading to a neck
ultrasound in the Medical Intensive Care Unit, which revealed
a left internal jugular clot of 1.5 cm.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Murmur noted in childhood thought to
be an innocent murmur.

ALLERGIES:  Sulfa with an unknown reaction.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in [**Location (un) 3844**] with his
parents.  He is a recent high school graduate.  He reports
two sexual partners with protection and denies IV drug use.
Denies tobacco.  Admits to occasional alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical exam on admission, the
patient's temperature was 101.8, heart rate was 122, blood
pressure 110/39.  His respiratory rate was 22, and his oxygen
saturation was 100% on ventilatory support.  In general, the
patient was an ill appearing young male lying in bed,
intubated, and lightly sedated on propofol.  On head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat examination, his pupils are equal,
round, and reactive to light and accommodation.  His sclerae
were anicteric.  Oropharynx are dry with no exudates.  Neck
was supple with tenderness to palpation noted on the left
side greater than the right side and tenderness to rotation
on the left with left anterior cervical adenopathy.  The left
side of the neck was erythematous and warm to touch.  Chest
examination revealed bronchial breath sounds and dullness
half way up on the right side and dullness to the left base
with crackles a third of the way up on the left.  Abdominal
examination was soft, nontender, nondistended abdomen with
positive bowel sounds.  Extremities examination showed no
clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  No Osler's, [**Last Name (un) 1003**], or
splinter hemorrhages.  Skin examination revealed linear
erythematous papular rash on the trunk at the level of T12 in
a dermatomal pattern.

LABORATORIES AT OUTSIDE HOSPITAL:  Laboratories in the
Emergency Department revealed a sodium of 132, potassium 4.2,
a chloride of 98, bicarb of 23, BUN of 28, and creatinine of
1.0, glucose of 92, ALT is 30, AST of 57, alkaline
phosphatase of 89, total bilirubin 0.9, amylase of 42, a CPK
of 238 with a MB fraction of 3, and a troponin of less than
0.3.  PT of 12.5, PTT of 29.3.  White count was 19.9,
hematocrit was 39, and platelets were 104.

Chest CT scan on admission revealed bilateral pleural
effusions right greater than left with fluid tracking to the
major fissure on the right.  In addition, a right upper lobe
peripherally based patchy opacity.  Small focus patchy
opacities were scattered throughout both lungs.  There was no
consolidation noted at the bases.

A CT scan of the abdomen was read as within normal limits.  A
CT scan of the pelvis was read as within normal limits.  A CT
scan of the head revealed no hemorrhage, no mass effect or
shift and clear paranasal sinuses.  The bone windows on the
CT scan of the pelvis were read as no lytic or blastic
lesions noted.

A neck ultrasound revealed partially occluded thrombus in the
left internal jugular vein with flow around the thrombus.

ASSESSMENT:  The patient is an 18-year-old male with some
history what he felt previously to be an innocent heart
murmur.  He presented 12 days after a dental cleaning with
fevers, cough, positive blood cultures, and a bedside
echocardiogram suspicious for a pulmonic thrombic lesion.
Considered was endocarditis with septic emboli to the lungs,
however, a neck ultrasound revealed a left internal jugular
clot and this was thought to be the source of septic emboli.

Thus, the patient was given the diagnosis of Lemierre's
syndrome.

PROBLEM LIST BY SYSTEM:
1. Lemierre's with septic pulmonary emboli (septic
thrombophlebitis of internal jugular vein).  Infectious
Disease was immediately consulted and recommended treatment
with ceftriaxone, Flagyl, and gentamicin to cover group C
Streptococcus and anaerobic gram-negative rods.  A head,
chest, pelvis, abdomen CT scan was done to evaluate for a
possible further emboli.  The CT scan showed no lesions in
the head, abdomen, or pelvis with multiple nodules in the
lungs consistent with septic emboli and decreased signal in
the left internal jugular vein.

Ultrasound of the neck showed a 1.5 mm clot in the left
internal jugular vein.  Xigris was considered for sepsis, but
the patient did not meet the criteria as he is not in shock,
and there was concern for anticoagulation with his bloody
thoracentesis fluid.

Cultures were requested from [**Hospital 1562**] Hospital.
Otolaryngology was consulted to evaluate for possible
internal jugular vein ligation.  They recommended
Heparinization to prevent propagation of the clot and
mentioned that surgery was not indicated unless the clot
progressed after 24 hours of antibiotics.  Therefore, a
repeat ultrasound was planned for 24 hours.

The patient remained febrile overnight with a maximum
temperature of 105.0 and a steady temperature of 102.4.  The
patient received a cooling blanket.

A morning chest x-ray was more worrisome for increased
pulmonary emboli and increased pleural effusions.  Infectious
Disease recommended starting acyclovir at 900 mg IV for a
possible herpetic rash.  The following day, ultrasound showed
extens