Admission Date:  [**2146-8-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2146-8-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2071-9-26**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICINE BLUMEGART

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old
white male with a history of atrial fibrillation, alcohol
abuse, and history of status post fall at home on the evening
of [**8-1**] while trying to get to his walker.  The
patient felt as though he hit his face but denied loss of
consciousness.  The patient was evaluated at
.................. Hospital for injuries and was said to be
drunk at that institution.  Alcohol level was positive.  CT
of the head was negative for evidence of acute bleed but
revealed a questionable right thalamic CVA.  CT of the head
was positive for [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]-orbital ethmoid complex fracture, and
the patient was transferred to the [**Hospital6 649**] for further work-up and management.

In the [**Hospital1 **] Emergency Department, the
patient was seen and evaluated by Trauma Surgery,
Neurosurgery, Plastics, Neurology, and Ophthalmology.  All
but Ophthalmology recommended no antibiotic coverage, and all
agreed on a repeat CT with center cut to further evaluate the
right thalamus.  Plastics, Trauma, and Ophthalmology Services
agreed to follow the patient closely while the patient was
in-house.

The patient was initially admitted to the MICU.  Of note, the
patient was found to have some degree of respiratory distress
in the Emergency Department with evidence of congestive heart
failure and mild right pleural effusion on chest x-ray which
was relieved to some degree with oxygen and nebulizer
treatments.  The patient was also hypertensive in the
Emergency Department to 230 systolic, 110 diastolic.
Cervical spine films were negative.

The patient denied any dizziness or vertigo at the time of
the fall.  He denied having been drunk and denied having had
any chest pain or headache.  Since the fall, he has had
positive frontal facial pain and right-sided rib pain but not
other specific discomfort.  He noted that he was short of
breath but improved on oxygen and nebulizers.  He denied any
fevers, chills, dysuria, or cough.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Atrial fibrillation.  History of
severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  Degenerative
joint disease.  Adrenal adenoma.  Bladder cancer.  Coronary
artery disease with in catheterization [**2145-11-29**] with an

ejection fraction of 50%.  History of hyponatremia.  Chronic
hypertension.  Congestive heart failure.  Diastolic
dysfunction.  Hypercholesterolemia.

ALLERGIES:  VICODIN, ASPIRIN WHICH CAUSES ANGIOEDEMA.

MEDICATIONS:  Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d., Celexa 20 mg p.o.
q.d., Combivent 2 puffs q.i.d., Flovent 2 puffs b.i.d., Lasix
40 mg p.o. q.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d., Prednisone 5 mg
p.o. q.d., Ultram 50 mg 10 pills a day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a 50 pack-year history of
tobacco use and drinks approximately 2-3 beers a day.  He
lives with his wife.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Pulse 73, blood pressure
200/85, respirations 26, 100% on 5 L on a non-rebreather.
General:  The patient was a white male, in a cervical collar,
upright on stretcher, with obvious facial trauma, in mild
respiratory distress.  HEENT:  Bilateral severe orbital
ecchymoses with moderate swelling and mild icterus.
Extraocular movements intact.  Pupils equal, round and
reactive to light and accommodation.  No other skull trauma
evident.  Positive swelling nasal bridge with bloody nasal
discharge on gauze.  No jaw dislocation evident.  He was able
to speak.  No lip trauma evident.  Tympanic membranes clear.
Lungs:  Decreased breath sounds at the bases bilaterally.
Positive expiratory wheezing at the apices and mid lung
fields with good air movement appreciated.  No rhonchi.  No
rales.  Heart:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2.  No
murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.  Guaiac negative per
Emergency Department.  Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis or
edema.  Pulses 2+ bilaterally.  Strength 5 out of 5
throughout and equal.  Positive ecchymosis of the left knee
but no fluid or fracture palpable.  No pain on movement.
Good capillary refill in the upper extremities and lower
extremities.  Neurological:  The patient was alert and
oriented times three.  Normal comprehension and appropriate
responses.  Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission the patient was noted to have
a leukocytosis of 13.5, with 86 neutrophils, 7 lymphs, 6
monocytes, no bands, hematocrit on admission 33.1, platelet
count 150,000, MCV 63; SMA7 with a sodium of 122, potassium
3.6, chloride 86, bicarb 25, BUN 14, creatinine 0.8, glucose
102, calcium 7.9, phosphorus 2.8, magnesium 1.5; first CPK
noted to be 138, troponin less than 0.3; PT 12.9, PTT 27.6,
INR 1.1; urinalysis showed large blood, 133 RBCs, greater
than 300 protein, no WBCs, no epis.



Cervical spine film showed severe degenerative joint disease
from C4-C7, no fracture.  CT of the head showed no mass
affect, extensive facial bone fractures and an asymmetric low
attenuation in the left thalamus.

Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 140, normal
axis, mild rate-related ST elevation of 1 mm in V2 and V3.
No T-wave inversions, mostly unchanged from [**2146-5-6**],
electrocardiogram.

IMPRESSION:  This is a 74-year-old white male with a
significant past medical history status post fall with
significant facial trauma and frontal skull fracture,
hypertension, hyponatremia, and shortness of breath.  The
patient was admitted to the MICU.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Trauma:  The patient was followed closely
while in the MICU, and subsequent transfer to the floor by
Neurosurgery, Plastics, Trauma, and Neurology, because of
severe facial fracture and an associated CSF leak, the
patient was placed on antibiotic prophylaxis with Clindamycin
and Ceftriaxone.  As per Surgical Services, thin cut
maxillofacial axial coronal CT was performed which further
elucidated the multiple fractures which Surgical Services
felt could be repaired as an outpatient.  The patient is to
follow-up in the [**Hospital 3595**] Clinic for repair of nasal bridge
fracture.

After several days of no CSF leak, Neurosurgery felt that it
was appropriate to discontinue the antibiotic prophylaxis,
and Clindamycin and Ceftriaxone were discontinued on hospital
day #6.

Pulmonary:  The patient was noted to have a chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation while in-house.
The patient was placed on Prednisone 60 mg p.o. q.d. with
nebulizer treatments, as well as oxygen.  Chest x-ray showed
a persistent bilateral pleural effusion and questionable lung
collapse on the left side.  The patient was continued on the
above mentioned medications, and his shortness of breath
improved as did the patient's productive cough.  The patient
was gradually tapered from Prednisone, and at the time of
discharge, was now on 20 mg p.o. q.d. and continued to
receive nebulizer treatments, with oxygen saturations
remaining above 95% on 2 L.

Cardiac:  The patient was noted to rule in for myocardial
infarction with CKs as high as 229, with MB fractions as high
as 19; however, the patient was not able to be anticoagulated
due to the traumatic fracture that he had sustained.  The
patient was continued on his other cardiac medications
including Lopressor, Lipitor, and Hydralazine.

In addition, the patient was scheduled for outpatient
elective cardioversion for his atrial fibrillation; however,
due to his admission, the patient was unable to make that
appointment.  We spoke with the patient's cardiologist, and
it was agreed that the patient would follow-up as an
outpatient.  Due to the small myocardial infarction that the
patient sustained while in-house, the patient received an
echocardiogram to assess cardiac function.  The results of
the echocardiogram included a markedly dilated left atrium,
mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy, moderately
dilated left ventricular cavity, overall left ventricular
systolic function was mildly to moderately depressed, there
was mild global left ventricular hypokinesis, resting
regional wall m