Admission Date:  [**2145-6-23**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2089-5-20**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Transferred with acute myocardial
infarction for cardiac catheterization.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 56 year old male with
a history of bipolar disorder complaining of intermittent
substernal chest pain starting on [**2145-6-20**].  The chest
pain became constant and markedly increased on the morning of
presentation and included shortness of breath, nausea, and
radiation to both shoulders.  The patient's cardiac risk
factors include history of tobacco use and
hypercholesterolemia.  He presented to [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 3075**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] CR.
Electrocardiogram there showed ST elevations, V1 through V6,
one in [**Last Name (LF) **], [**First Name3 (LF) **] depressions in 2, 3 and AVF, Q waves in V1
through V3, 3 and AVF.  After catheterization ST segments
remained elevated in V2 through V6 and an [**Last Name (LF) **], [**First Name3 (LF) **] depressions
persisted in leads 2, 3 and AVF and Q waves were present in
V1 through V4.  The patient was given Aspirin, Lopressor,
Heparin, intravenous Nitroglycerin and Integrilin and
transferred for cardiac catheterization to [**Hospital6 1760**].  Cardiac catheterization
showed normal left main left anterior descending with total
proximal occlusion just after a high first septal.  After
crossing this with a wire, it was seen that this was actually
severe proximal and more moderate distally.  These were
stented with two stents overlapping.  Severe disease was also
noted diagonal 2 which was not treated.  TIMI 3 flow was
noted and atrial stenosis was achieved.  The left circumflex
showed serial 30% lesions and a large obtuse marginal 2 had
an 80% stenosis.  The left circumflex posterior descending
artery was normal.  Right coronary artery showed two serial
90% lesions and a large right marginal.  Hemodynamics were
normal.  Dopamine was required transorally for perfusion
hypotension.  Intervention was performed with Percocet as
distal detection as the patient was enrolled in the Emerald
Trial.  Persistent anterior chest pain after catheterization.
Left ventriculogram showed anteroapical akinesis with
hyperdynamic basis and a 40% ejection fraction.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Bipolar disorder.  The patient was
hospitalized in [**2145-1-6**].  His condition has been
difficult to treat and he received electroconvulsive therapy
during his hospitalization in [**2145-1-6**].  2.  History of
melanoma.  3.  History of basal cell carcinoma.  4.  Cervical
radiculopathies and spondylosis.  5.  Hypercholesterolemia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lexapro 10 mg p.o. q. day; Requip
1 mg p.o. q. AM and .5 mg p.o. q. noon; Trileptal 300 mg p.o.
q. day; Lamictil 275 mg p.o. q. day; Provigil 400 mg p.o. q.
AM and 300 mg p.o. q. noon.

ALLERGIES:  Desipramine causes rash.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  38 year tobacco history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.3, pulse 83, blood
pressure 112/69, oxygen saturation 97% on 3 liters.
Neurological, no focal neurological deficits, alert and
oriented times three.  Cardiovascular, regular rate and
rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or gallops, no jugulovenous
distension distention.  No peripheral edema.  Pulmonary,
bilateral basilar crackles.  Abdomen, soft, nontender,
nondistended.

LABORATORY DATA:  Pertinent laboratory data on admission
revealed creatinine kinase 296, MV 13.7, troponin 1.13, INR
1.0, creatinine 1.0, hematocrit 47.0 and electrocardiogram as
described above in the history of present illness.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  When transferred from the Catheterization
Laboratory to the Coronary Care Unit the patient was
continued on Integrilin for 18 hours.  He was started on
Aspirin, Plavix and a statin.  He was also started on a beta
blocker and ACE inhibitor, the doses which were increased as
blood pressure tolerated.  Because of the anteroapical
akinesis noted on left ventriculogram the patient was started
on an heparin drip as well as Coumadin when the Integrilin
drip finished.  Persistent chest pain post catheterization
was treated with Morphine Sulfate and eventually resolved.
The patient's oxygen saturation was suboptimal in the low 90s
on 6 liters of oxygen. Given that the patient had bilateral
basilar crackles as well as a subjective stent of inability
to get a complete breath, he was diuresed on several
successive days with 20 to 40 mg of intravenous Lasix to
maintain a negative fluid balance.  Reduction of saturation
improved with this treatment.  Physical therapy saw the
patient and cleared the patient for discharge home.
Outpatient medication regimen for bipolar disease was
continued.  A stepup in oxygen saturation between the
superior vena cava and the pulmonary artery was noted from 60
to 68% and when the patient follows up with Cardiology in one
months time he should obtain a formal echocardiogram with
bubble study to check for shunt.  On hospital day #3 the
patient did have recurrent chest pain in the morning which
resolved with sublingual nitroglycerin and morphine as well
as Ativan.  There were no electrocardiogram changes and cycle
of enzymes continued to decrease with no bump.  Peak
creatinine kinase was 3,050.

Please note that the rest of the hospital course as well as
discharge status, medications and diagnoses will be dictated
at the time of discharge by the next intern on the service.



                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5214**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2582**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2145-6-26**]  23:35
T:  [**2145-6-27**]  08:14
JOB#:  [**Job Number 13671**]
