Admission Date:  [**2126-12-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2127-1-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2058-12-5**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU GREEN

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Fatigue and renal failure.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 68-year-old Russian speaking
male in usual state of health until one week ago when he was
noted to have worsening fatigue and decreased intake.  At the
time, he was noted to be hypotensive per his VNA and was
bolused multiple times over the week.  He is also noted to
have watery diarrhea over the last couple days prior to
admission.

He denied any other symptoms including shortness of breath,
chest pain, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, hematuria,
melena, bright red blood per rectum, fevers, chills,
pruritus.  His family also notes that he has had decreased
lower extremity edema, decreased stomach distention, as well
as a weight loss of 20-30 pounds over the last three weeks,
as well as poor urine output.  He was recently admitted to
another hospital, at which time he was found to be in renal
failure.  His creatinine at the time had gone from 4 from a
baseline of 2.

Prior to discharge from [**Hospital 665**] Hospital, his creatinine had
normalized.  In the Emergency Room at [**Hospital1 190**], he was found to have guaiac-positive stool
with a hematocrit of 28 and creatinine was 4.5.  He was given
normal saline, and transfused 1 unit of pack cells, and
admitted for acute management of his acute and chronic renal
failure and fatigue.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hypertension.
2. Status post appendectomy.
3. Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
4. Status post hernia repair.
5. History of supraventricular tachycardias.
6. Renal cell cancer status post right nephrectomy and
thrombectomy due to tumor involvement extension into the IVC,
status post intermediate dose IL-2 treatment, which was
discontinued secondary to disease progression, status post
radiation treatment to the left shoulder for bony metastases.
7. Hemorrhoids.
8. Depression.
9. Congestive heart failure.
10. Chronic renal insufficiency.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Flomax 0.4 mg po q day.
2. Coumadin 2.5 mg po q day.
3. Paxil 10 mg po q day.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for a mother dying at age [**Age over 90 **]
from stomach cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient has a tobacco history, quit smoking
in [**2096**].  He is married, lives with his wife, and has one
son.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 97.2, blood
pressure 104/39, heart rate 88, respiratory rate 18, and 99%
on room air.  In general, this is an elderly male in no acute
distress.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to
light.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  Oropharynx had
petechiae.  Soft palate and mucous membranes dry.  Neck
examination:  Jugular venous pulse at 7 cm at 30 degrees, no
bruits and no lymphadenopathy.  Lung examination revealed
bilateral rales at the bases, no wheezes, no accessory muscle
use, and dullness at the right base.  Heart examination:
Regular, rate, and rhythm, 2/6 systolic murmur at the left
sternal border.  No S3, S4, no muffled heart sounds, no rubs
or gallops.  Abdominal examination:  Obese, soft, nontender,
nondistended, bowel sounds present.  Extremities:  2+ edema
to the knees bilaterally.  Lower extremities in an Ace
bandage.  Neurological examination:  Sleepy, but responds to
questions appropriately.  Cranial nerves II through XII
intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 9.4, hematocrit 28.2, platelets
215.  Sodium 128, potassium 5.2, chloride 97, CO2 19, BUN
135, creatinine 5.5, glucose 89, calcium 7.5, magnesium 2.0,
phosphorus 7.0.  ALT 8, AST 26, amylase 42, lipase 78,
albumin 3.2, total bilirubin 0.8.  Lactate 1.5.

Arterial blood gas:  PH 7.3, pCO2 of 25, pO2 of 93.
Urinalysis reveals small blood, negative nitrates or
leukocyte esterase, protein of 30, and few bacteria.

Electrocardiogram revealed sinus rhythm at 82, normal axis,
interventricular conduction delay, T-wave inversions in lead
III.

Chest x-ray reveals pulmonary nodules bilaterally consistent
with known metastatic disease, cardiac enlargement, right
pleural effusion, and bilateral pulmonary opacities
consistent with failure, underlying infiltrate at the right
base could not be excluded.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Renal failure:  The patient was known to have an elevation
of his renal insufficiency that was not responsive to IV
fluid hydration.  A Renal consult was obtained for further
evaluation of his renal failure.  A renal ultrasound was
obtained which did not show any evidence of obstruction.  A
MRI also revealed no evidence of hydronephrosis and showed
blood flow going in the renal arteries with mild-to-moderate
hydroureter.  A percutaneous nephrostomy tube was considered
for possible decompression and the family's decision was to
hold-off at this time.

The patient's renal failure continued to progress and was
notably found to be hyperkalemic despite medical management.
The family wished to pursue hemodialysis as a temporary
measure to correct his renal failure in the hopes of
recovering renal function during this temporary measure of
dialysis.

However, his blood pressures were unable to tolerate dialysis
and required pressors to maintain his blood pressures through
his dialysis sessions.  He was then transferred to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit, where he proceeded to have
dialysis approximately 3x a week with intermittently
successful dialysis treatments with fluid removal.  His
hyperkalemia resolved with the assistance of dialysis and
continued dialysis in the hopes of removing his severely
total body fluid overloaded status.  However, after
approximately six weeks of dialysis, there was no improvement
in terms of his renal failure.

Multiple family meetings were held in regards to the
continuance of dialysis given that his comorbidities, overall
prognosis does not warrant further dialysis sessions.  He
continued to have dialysis throughout his hospital course
after much debate.  However, his blood pressures required
multiple pressors and on his day of death, he was not a
candidate for emergent dialysis secondary to his severely
compromised hemodynamic status.

2. Hypotension:  As mentioned in the previous section, the
patient required pressors to tolerate hemodialysis, as well
as maintaining adequate perfusion pressors.  Attempts were
made to wean his pressor requirements, but with no success.
He eventually required the assistance of four pressors which
were unable to maintain his blood pressures at an adequate
level as indicated by his rising lactate levels.  It was felt
that his hypotension was secondary to a distributive shock,
coupled with intravascular depletion, hypothyroidism, and
adrenal insufficiency, all of which were medically treated
appropriately.  Regardless, the requirement for pressors
continued throughout his hospital course and was unsuccessful
in weaning.

3. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis:
The patient was noted to have a mitral valve vegetation which
was the source of his methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus bacteremia.  He was continued on a six week course of
Vancomycin.  A repeat echocardiogram was performed after the
completion of his six week course which was inconclusive for
mitral valve vegetation.

4. Ventilator-associated pneumonia.  The patient was noted to
have an episode of fevers, increased secretions, and
leukocytosis, which was consistent with a ventilator
associated pneumonia.  Sputum cultures grew out Morganella,
and was placed on a two week course of antibiotics with
successful resolution of his thickened secretions and fevers
as well as his leukocytosis.

He remained symptom free for the majority of this hospital
course.  However, it was noted on hospital day 52 with an
elevation in his fevers with a x-ray consistent with a new
left upper lobe pneumonia and was again started on
antibiotics.  Sputum cultures grew 1+ gram-negative rods.
However, it was felt that complications from his new
pneumonia exacerbated his hypotension and subsequently
developed a metabolic acidosis which was minimally corrected
with respiratory compensation as well as sodium bicarb