Admission Date:  [**2117-12-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2117-12-29**]


Service:  BLUE SURGERY

PROBLEM LIST:
1.  Rectal prolapse status post Altemeirer repair on [**12-13**].
2.  Acute myocardial infarction on [**12-16**].
3.  Upper gastrointestinal bleed on [**12-24**].

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Rectal prolapse.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a [**Age over 90 **] year-old female
with rectal prolapse admitted to go to the Operating Room on
[**12-13**] for Altemeirer procedure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for anemia, peptic ulcer
disease, diverticulosis, GI bleed, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, hypertension, zoster, coronary artery
disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Cholecystectomy, total abdominal
hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Albuterol inhaler, Alendronate,
Enalapril, Levofloxacin, nitroglycerin and Prilosec.

ALLERGIES:  Sulfa and Carafate.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with caretaker.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was afebrile.  Vital signs
were stable.  She was alert and oriented, hard of hearing.
Chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally.  She had a 2 out
of 6 systolic ejection murmur over the left sternal border
otherwise regular rate and rhythm.  Abdomen nontender,
nondistended.  She had full rectal tone with no lower
extremity edema.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White count 8.3, hematocrit 28.1,
platelets 255, sodium 139, potassium 4.5, chloride 105,
bicarb 25, BUN 35, creatinine 1.3, glucose 104.
Electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm.  No acute
ischemia.  Chest x-ray was within normal limits.  No pleural
effusions or infiltrates.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted and had a Fleets
prep kit and [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] prep done prior to surgery.  She was
put on subQ heparin, Flagyl and Kefzol.  On postop day one
and two the patient had increasing difficulty with her
breathing.  She was put on humidified face mask.  She was
diuresed with Lasix times two on [**12-15**] and also her Enalapril
was decreased at this time secondary to hypotension.
Postoperative day three the patient was found to have
increased wheezing.  She was given nebulizer treatment
without help. She was given intravenous Lasix.
Electrocardiogram done at this time showed ST depression in
1, AVL, V4 through V6.  ST elevation in V1 and then Q waves
in 3 and AVF.  Her enzymes were cycled.  Her CPK was found to
be 441, troponin greater then 50, hematocrit was 25.3.  BUN
48, creatinine 2.2 from a creatinine of 1.3 on admission.
The patient was transfused with a unit of blood and
transferred to the CICU with a cardiology consult.  The recs
were followed as far as giving her aspirin, putting her on
intravenous heparin and giving her a beta blocker, getting
TTE and a PA catheter was placed and she was found to have a
CVP of 10.  It was decided at that time to not bring the
patient to the catheterization laboratory.

Postoperative day four the patient was transfused two units
of packed red blood cells.  TPN was started as well as a
dobutamine drip.  The TTE showed an ejection fraction of 30%
with anterior hypokinesis.  On postoperative day five the
Dobutamine was weaned.  Captopril was started.  Heparin drip
was continued.  Her CPK continued to trend down.  On
postoperative day six her hematocrit was 34.3, PTT 73.2,
creatinine 1.5 and TPN was discontinued.  On postop day seven
the patient was still on Captopril, Lopressor, aspirin,
heparin drip.  Her ATN was improving. Hematocrit was stable
on a regular diet and the patient was transferred to a
regular floor.  Postoperative day eight was uneventful except
for the fact that her BUN and creatinine began to rise.  Her
BUN was 56 and creatinine was 1.5.  On postoperative day nine
the BUN was 62 and creatinine 1.6.  The patient was noted to
have crackles.  At this point her heparin was discontinued.
She was started on Plavix and Imdur.

Postoperative day ten was uneventful.  On postoperative
eleven she had an episode of hematemesis and melena and was
transferred to the unit where an esophagogastroduodenoscopy
was done, which showed a friable stress ulcer in the distal
stomach, which was injected with epinephrine.  Her hematocrit
at this point was 24.1.  She was transfused with 2 units.  On
postop day twelve her hematocrit was 32.1.  Her enzymes were
cycled and were negative.  The patient was also started on
Levofloxacin for a urinary tract infection and her hematocrit
was stable at 1.4.  On postoperative day thirteen the patient
was transferred to the floor and was noted to have evening
confusion most likely secondary to the Benadryl, which was
discontinued.  Over the last three days of her hospital stay
the patient had stable laboratories.  She has been afebrile
with vital signs stable without any confusion.  Her
Levofloxacin was discontinued as she finished a full course
for her urinary tract infection.  She had been working with
physical therapy and occupational therapy eating and voiding
on her own and is ready for rehab.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Protonix 40 mg po q day, Serax 15 mg
po q.h.s. prn, Mylanta 30 cc q 4 hours po and Alternagel 30
cc q 4 hours po, both of those alternating.  Lipitor 10 mg po
q.d., Imdur 30 mg po q.d., Captopril 25 mg po t.i.d.,
Albuterol Atrovent MDI q 6 hours prn and Lopressor 25 mg po
b.i.d. held for systolic blood pressure of less then 110 and
a heart rate less then 50.  We have decided at this time to
not give the patient any Lasix as each dose seems to increase
her BUN and creatinine significantly.






                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4007**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 9018**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2117-12-29**]  12:22
T:  [**2117-12-29**]  13:23
JOB#:  [**Job Number 99017**]
