Admission Date:  [**2144-8-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2144-10-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2079-9-13**]       Sex:  F

Service:

ADDENDUM:  This addendum is to summarize the events, which
took place between [**2144-9-19**] and [**2144-10-2**].

Infectious disease system:  The patient completed her course
of Meropenem to a total of fourteen days.  The patient
continued to have low grade fevers without any frank
temperature spikes.  She was followed after her completion of
course with no actual temperature spike with plans to
reculture the patient if she did spike.

Pulmonary:  The patient received a bed side tracheostomy and
was maintained on mechanical ventilation.  Mechanical
ventilation was slowly weaned in the degree of support.  On
[**2144-10-1**] the patient was deemed to be stable for
discontinuing on the ventilator.  In discussion with the
patient's husband it was agreed that the patient would be
taken off the ventilator.

Renal:  The patient continued to receive hemodialysis between
[**9-19**] and [**9-25**].  A Perm-A-Cath was placed as
it was anticipated that the patient would continue dialysis
at an outside facility.  However, on [**2144-9-28**] a
discussion with the family took place and it was determined
that the patient should be discontinued from hemodialysis.

Hematologic:  The patient's anemia of chronic disease
continued.  Hematocrit was followed and transfusions were
given in order to maintain a hematocrit above 28.

Neurologic:  The patient was seen in consultation again by
the Neurological Consult Team on Monday [**9-28**] at the
request of the family.  At this time Neurology Service felt
that although the patient appeared to be more alert and more
neurologically awake with eye movements, it was felt that
these eye movements were not purposeful and the patient was
unlikely to recover from her subcortical encephalopathy.
Over the course of these two weeks the neurologic examination
remained constant with a unilateral startle reflex,
unilateral corneal reflex, eye opening to name, apparent
looking around the room, however, no purposeful movements and
no following of commands and no withdraw to pain.

Nutrition:  The patient received a PEG tube and tube feeds
were continued through the PEG tube.

GI system:  Because of the patient's ongoing abdominal
discomfort with grimace on abdominal examination, liver
function tests were evaluated.  These were generally within
normal limits.  Amylase and lipase was found to be elevated
and the patient's tube feeds were held for some period of
time to treat apparent pancreatitis.  In addition, a right
upper quadrant ultrasound was performed, which revealed
dilated ducts and sludge in the gallbladder.  Further
evaluation of this did not take place.

DISPOSITION:  A family meeting took place on [**2144-9-28**] in light of the repeat assessment by the Neurology
Consult Team.  The patient's family accepted the assessment
of the Neurology Team and determined that the patient would
be unlikely to have wanted to live in a condition such as
this.  At that time it was elected to make the patient do not
resuscitate and comfort measures only.  At that time finger
stick blood glucose levels, regular insulin sliding scale,
blood cultures, antibiotics, laboratory tests were all
discontinued.  For comfort the patient continued tube feeds,
Prevacid, Lopressor and was started on low dose around the
clock morphine.  The patient's family initially elected to
continue the patient on the ventilator as they felt the
patient would be more comfortable in breathing while on the
ventilator.  On [**2144-10-1**] a family discussion took
place during which the family was told that the patient could
be maintained comfortably off the ventilator and that minimal
support was being delivered by the ventilator at that time.
The patient's family then elected to discontinue mechanical
ventilation.  She has since been maintained on tracheostomy
cuff with 40% humidified O2.

On [**2144-10-2**] the patient was prepared for a transfer
to the General Medicine Floor to await ongoing screening for
rehabilitation facilities and/or hospice care at a facility
closer to the patient's family in [**Doctor Last Name **].

A third addendum will take place in which follow up
instructions and disposition are detailed.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7512**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2665**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2144-10-2**]  12:03
T:  [**2144-10-2**]  12:26
JOB#:  [**Job Number 28719**]
