Admission Date: [**2169-1-18**]        Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:  [**2099-6-17**]        Sex:  M

Service:  Vascular Surgery


This is a 69-year-old gentleman, admitted to the vascular
service on [**2169-1-18**].

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is 69-year-old male who has
a history of abdominal pain, underwent workup for cholecystic
disease and an incidental finding of an 8 cm aneurysm was
noted. The patient was referred to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] for further
evaluation and treatment. He is now admitted for elective
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. The patient was admitted to
the preoperative holding area on [**2168-12-27**].

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Combivent inhaler q.i.d., Motrin
p.r.n., atenolol 50 mg every day.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Not documented.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Not documented.

SMOKING HISTORY:  Two packs per day times years. The patient
quit. Length of cessation is unknown. The patient does not
use alcohol.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the
preoperative holding area. He underwent an abdominal aortic
repair with an aorto-iliac graft and a cholecystectomy. He
tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the PACU
in stable condition. He immediately postoperatively  was
stable. He remained intubated overnight and he had an
epidural placed in the operating room for analgesic control.
Physical exam demonstrated a dopplerable biphasic DP and PT
bilaterally with palpable femorals. His postoperative
hematocrit was 34.5 with a BUN of 14 and creatinine 1.4.
Chest x-ray was unremarkable and the right IJ was in
appropriate placement.

On postoperative day #2 there were no overnight events. The
patient remained afebrile on SL IMV. His hematocrit remained
stable. His creatinine bumped to 2.5. Renal recommended
ultrasounds to rule out hydronephrosis or obstruction. The
patient remained in the PACU.

The patient was transferred on postoperative day #1 to the
SICU for continued care. Serial CKs and troponins were
obtained, with total CKs of 335, 1066 and 1314. Troponins
were 0.01, 0.08 and 0.07. The patient remained in the SICU on
postoperative day #2 intubated. The epidural was discontinued
and the ICU would manage analgesic control. The patient was
extubated on postoperative day 2, but required reintubation
secondary to respiratory distress. The patient was transfused
on postoperative day 2 for a hematocrit of 27.4. Post
transfusion hematocrit was 31.6. Nutritional assessment was
made on postoperative day 3 and TPN was increased. A right
femoral hemodialysis catheter was placed on [**2169-1-10**]
and the patient was dialyzed for volume overload. He
continued to require blood transfusion for a persistent low
hematocrit of 27.3. His right IJ Swan was discontinued on
[**2169-1-21**] and converted to a triple lumen catheter.
Post procedure x-ray was unremarkable. Post transfusion
hematocrit was 29.2.

The patient remained on CVVH, requiring adjustment of flow
rates. Chest x-ray continued to show improvement. This was on
postoperative day #7. The patient continued to receive
transfusions for a hematocrit of 28.1. The patient was
finally weaned off pressors on [**2169-2-3**]. Left
subclavian dialysis catheter was placed on [**2169-1-24**].

The patient was extubated on postoperative day #8. He
continued to require transfusion.  His hematocrit drifted to
26.4 He continued on TPN and CVVH. Hemodialysis was
instituted on postoperative day #8. Post transfusion
hematocrit on postoperative day 9 was 28, up from 26.5. The
wounds were clean, dry and intact. He was then transitioned
to nasal cannula and continued on hemodialysis. He remained
NPO on TPN.

The patient required an EEG for postoperative confusion. It
was consistent with subcortical dysfunction consistent with
encephalopathy. The patient did begin to verbalize. His first
words were "no." Post transfusion hematocrit was 29.1 and he
received continued TPN.

On postoperative day #11 the patient had an episode of rapid
atrial fibrillation, requiring cardioversion. He continued to
remain in the SICU. Dialysis was continued. The patient
postoperatively was continued on hemodialysis. His TPN was
continued. His hematocrit was 28.4. He continued to be
transfused.

On postoperative day 12 the patient developed a postoperative
fever to T-max of 102 and back pain. A chest x-ray was
obtained which showed questionable density in the right base.
White count was 19. Dialysis was discontinued. The patient
was pancultured. Vancomycin and Zosyn for possible pneumonia
or line infection were instituted. The patient's CVL and
peripheral line cultures grew Gram positive cocci. Zosyn
dosing adjustment was made and blood cultures were repeated.
ID was consulted and recommendation was to remove the
offending line and monitor serial cultures and continue
vancomycin. All dialysis catheters were removed secondary to
positive cultures.  Vancomycin was continued and dosed at
renal dosing. The patient continued on hemodialysis.

On postoperative day 13 the patient required reintubation for
increasing respiratory distress and abdominal distention. The
patient was reintubated secondary to respiratory acidosis and
hyperkalemia. The right subclavian and left IJ lines were
placed and the CVVH was restarted. The acidosis improved. The
hypotension improved and the hyperkaliemia improved. The
chest x-ray was consistent with pulmonary edema. Hematocrit
was 23 and the patient was transfused. His troponin was 0.15.
Cardiology was consulted.

On postoperative day the patient was weaned from his vent and
was extubated. Repeat blood cultures obtained from the
central line demonstrated [**Female First Name (un) 564**]. The patient was begun on
caspofungin 70 mg IV x1 and then 30 mg every day. The patient
underwent an echocardiogram on postoperative day #1 to rule
out for intracardiac vegetations. It showed mild left
ventricular hypertrophy with ejection fraction of 60% to 70%.
There was no mention of vegetative changes intracardiac. The
patient was instituted on tube feeds.

Ophthalmology was consulted to rule out evidence for
ophthalmic candidiasis, which on exam was negative. The
patient was started on levofloxacin for a UTI on
postoperative day #21, which was [**2169-2-8**]. A bedside
swallow was obtained on [**2169-2-10**]. They felt the
patient did not demonstrate any signs or symptoms of
aspiration at the bedside, but silent aspiration could not be
ruled out. They recommended to initiate a P.O. diet consist
with soft solids and thin liquids, and demonstrate to the
patient aspiration precautions. They also recommended that
ENT be consulted regarding patient's prolonged hoarseness.

The patient was transferred to the VICU on postoperative day
#26. A PICC line was placed on [**2169-2-15**] in
interventional radiology for continued IV antibiotic therapy.
The patient continued on tube feeds and P.O. food was
started. Calorie counts were obtained. The patient was begun
on a steroid taper on [**2169-2-16**].

The patient was discharged to home with services in stable
condition. It was recommended to follow with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] and
call for an appointment in 2 to 3 weeks. Follow-up with Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name (STitle) 805**] of the [**Hospital **] Clinic, and the nephrology
department in 1 week.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1. Renal failure.
2. Respiratory failure requiring reintubation.
3. Failure to thrive requiring TPN and tube feedings.
4. Aortic abdominal aneurysm, status post aorto-iliac bypass
   with an incidental cholecystectomy secondary to stones.
5. History of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
6. History of anxiety.
7. History of hypertension.
8. History of bladder carcinoma.
9. Central line infection with septicemia, both methicillin
   resistant Staphylococcus aureus and yeast.
10.      Dialysis started.
11.      Fungemia.
12.      Anemia requiring blood transfusions.


DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Albuterol ipratropium aerosol 1 to 2 puffs q.4h. as
   needed.
2. Fluticasone propionate aerosol puffs 2 b.i.d.
3. Salmeterol xinafoate disk q.12h.
4. Lansoprazol