Admission Date:  [**2196-7-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2196-7-11**]


Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Mental status changes.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 78 year-old man who
was admitted to the Emergency Room on [**7-8**].  He has a
history of coronary artery disease and is status post
myocardial infarction, history of diabetes and he presented
to the Emergency Room complaining of some confusion, a
productive cough of yellow sputum, fatigue and malaise and
abdominal distention.  The patient woke up at 3:00 in the
morning on the day of admission with an episode of coughing
and choking with shortness of breath and appeared to his
family to be confused.  On arrival to the Emergency
Department he was febrile to 102 and somewhat hypotensive
with a blood pressure in the 80s.  He had an oxygen
saturation at 95% on 3 liters and a chest x-ray was
suggestive of a left lower lobe pneumonia.  He was
administered intravenous fluids and Levaquin in the Emergency
Department.  In addition, a Foley catheter was placed and at
some point at the catheter placement bright red blood was
noted in the catheter tube.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery
disease, status post myocardial infarction one year ago.  In
[**Month (only) 216**] of last year a catheterization showed a 70% occlusion
of proximal D1 and a 60% occlusion of proximal obtuse
marginal one, several occluded diagonal and marginal
branches.  He was not felt to be a candidate for intervention
and was treated with medical therapy.  He also has a history
of transient ischemic attack for which he takes Plavix,
depression, mild congestive heart failure with an ejection
fraction of 45%.

MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin, Plavix, Glucophage, Zestril, Toprol
XL, furosemide, Spironolactone, Hydrochlorothiazide,
Glipizide, Lipitor, Timoptic drops.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He did not use alcohol or tobacco.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  This was a somewhat ill appearing man
in no acute distress.  Temperature 102.  Heart rate 74.
Blood pressure 89/45.  Examination of the head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat revealed no abnormalities.  The neck was
supple.  Lungs were clear to auscultation.  Heart was
regular.  Abdomen was soft, slightly distended, nontender
with mass.  Examination of the extremities revealed 2+
pitting edema bilaterally.  He was oriented times three on
admission, otherwise there were no significant neurological
findings.

LABORATORY FINDINGS ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count of
10.4, hematocrit 35, sodium 137, potassium 4.3, chloride 101,
bicarb 22, BUN 48, creatinine 1.1, glucose 124, INR 1.7.
Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly and a left lower lobe
infiltrate and a KUB showed a nonspecific bowel gas pattern.
Electrocardiogram showed a irregular rhythm without clear P
waves and this was felt to represent atrial fibrillation.
There was a right bundle branch block, Q waves were present
in the inferior leads and in V3 and V4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially admitted to the
floor and was treated with Levofloxacin.  There was no
evidence of cardiac ischemia at the time of admission.  Due
to the patient's hematuria the Foley catheter was left in
place and hematuria initially appeared to clear, however, he
did develop an obstruction in the catheter tube with bladder
distention and the patient was evaluated by urology who
removed the Foley catheter and placed several Foley catheters
in order to irrigate clots and eventually placed a catheter
for continuous bladder irrigations.  Per the recommendation
of the urology team the patient underwent an abdominal
ultrasound, which showed no abnormalities in the kidneys.
The bladder was clasped from the Foley tube.  There was a
significant amount of ascites in the abdomen.

The patient received vitamin K for his elevated INR and the
next day the patient seemed to be improving clinically with
decreased hematuria, improved mental status and no
difficulties with his breathing.  However, at approximately
3:00 in the morning on [**7-10**] the patient sustained a
cardiac arrest.  This appears to have initially begun as a
bradycardic event.  The patient was minimally responsive with
poor respiratory effort with an irregular pulse in the 30s.
The patient was given Atropine and subsequently developed
alternating PEA and asystole.  He was intubated and received
CPR.  He was given a total of three doses of epinephrine and
two doses of Atropine and Dopamine and Epinephrine drips were
started.  The patient did recover a pulse intermittently, but
the total resuscitation lasted approximately an hour and
twenty minutes and there were episodes as long as twenty
minutes in which the patient was not noted to have any pulse.

The patient was transferred to the MICU and did have evidence
of anoxic brain injury with sluggishly reactive pupils and
decorticate posturing.  The patient continued to be
aggressively treated in the Medical Intensive Care Unit.  He
required high doses of nor-epinephrine and Dopamine to
maintain a mean arterial pressure of the high 50s.  The
epinephrine drip was weaned to off.  He was continued on a
morphine drip and Ativan drip for sedation and received a
bicarb drip for acidosis.  He underwent a bedside
echocardiogram, which showed severe globally depressed left
ventricular function and minimal pericardial effusion.  It
was felt that the etiology of his hypotension was cardiogenic
shock, but the etiology was unclear.  His twelve lead
electrocardiogram intermittently showed a ventricular escape
rhythms and accelerated idioventricular rhythms, but there
was no evidence of acute ischemic changes and his maximal
troponin was 4.0.

His INR continued to rise as high as 6 and liver function
tests when checked showed transaminases in the 5000 range.
When liver function tests were retrospectively added to the
patient's admission laboratories they were normal.  His
antibiotic coverage was broadened to include Ampicillin and
Flagyl and when his blood culture from [**7-8**] came back
positive for gram positive cocci the Ampicillin was stopped
and Vancomycin was begun.  The patient's white count did
initially elevated as high as 19 after the event, but then
decreased back down to 10 and his temperature did not exceed
100.5 and there did not appear to be evidence of active
sepsis at this time.  The patient underwent a head CT showing
no abnormalities.  An abdomen and pelvis CT performed without
intravenous contrast showed a large amount of ascites and
pleural effusions, but no evidence of perforation or obvious
abscess.

The patient remained significantly hemodynamically unstable.
He was completely anuric.  His creatinine rose to 2.8.  The
severity of the situation was discussed with the family
extensively and they initially wished aggressive therapy to
identify the underlying etiology of the patient's cardiac
arrest as well as long as there was any chance of survival,
however, as the patient continued to show a deteriorating
course and multiorgan system failure and it was emphasized to
the family that his prognosis for a meaningful survival was
becoming extremely unlikely.  They did agree that no further
aggressive intervention should be performed.  The patient
underwent a CT angiogram of the lungs to rule out a pulmonary
embolism and that showed no evidence of any pulmonary
embolism.  On [**7-11**] the patient developed complete heart
block and became progressively more bradycardic.  He was
placed on a do not resuscitate protocol and then developed
asystole and was pronounced dead at 9:00 p.m. on [**7-11**].






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 125**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 126**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4062**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 16885**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2196-7-12**]  08:05
T:  [**2196-7-13**]  06:38
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]

cc:[**First Name (STitle) 97620**]