Admission Date:  [**2136-6-22**]       Discharge Date:  [**2136-8-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2086-10-4**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiac Surgery

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain and shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 12598**] is a 49 year old
male with a history of diabetes, coronary artery disease and
congestive heart failure who woke up approximately five hours
prior to admission with shortness of breath, slight chest
pressure and drove himself to the Emergency Department.
There he was found to be in atrial fibrillation with ischemic
changes and hypotension.  He was noted to have a history of
coronary artery disease but has not had any significant chest
pain for the past few years, ever since the last
catheterization.  In the Emergency Department the patient was
complaining of palpitations, decreasing shortness of breath
along with chest and shoulder pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease, status
post myocardial infarction, status post percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty in [**2130**], recent stress test
in [**2136-5-14**] demonstrates no arrhythmia or
electrocardiogram changes but his treadmill test was stopped
for leg fatigue.  His echocardiogram revealed some concentric
hypertrophy and an ejection fraction of 55-50%.  2.  Insulin
dependent diabetes mellitus.  3.  Hypercholesterolemia.  4.
Status post thyroidectomy for goiter with resultant
hypothyroidism.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Lipitor 40 mg p.o. q. day
2.  Lasix 40 mg alternating with 60 mg q.d.
3.  Folic acid 1 mg q.d.
4.  Synthroid 300 mcg q.d.
5.  70/30 Insulin 70 units in the morning and 35 units in the
evening

ALLERGIES:  Demerol and Percocet make him nauseated.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  He is noted to be an obese middle-aged
male in mild to moderate respiratory distress on a stretcher.
His neck has 15 cm of jugulovenous distension and positive
hepatojugular reflux but there is no bruit.  His lungs have
bilateral crackles at the bases, greater on the right then on
the left.  His heart is irregular with an S1 and S2 and a
questionable S3.  His abdomen is obese with normoactive bowel
sounds.  Extremities have 3+ bilateral pitting edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission laboratory data reveals his white
blood count is 6.6, hematocrit 36.2, platelets 120.  Sodium
is 135, potassium 4.2, chloride 94, bicarbonate 31, BUN 21,
creatinine 1.2 and glucose 408.  Coagulation screen are
normal.  CK is 81, MB is 5, troponin is 2.0.
Electrocardiogram demonstrates atrial flutter at a rate of
138, there are Q waves in leads V2 through V4.  Chest x-ray
shows marked cardiomegaly with pulmonary congestion.

Recent laboratory studies reveal TSH 85, hemoglobin A1c 13.7.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This patient had an extremely long
difficult complicated and drawn out hospitalization.  The
following is a very brief summary of events.

The patient was found to have an acute myocardial infarction
when he presented to the Emergency Room.  He was in rapid
atrial fibrillation and became hypotensive.  Due to his
cardiogenic shock cardiothoracic surgery was consulted to
place a balloon pump in him.  He was stabilized on pressors
over the course of the next several days.  He was initially
felt to be a poor candidate for revascularization but was
eventually taken for surgery when he developed continued
unstable angina.  He had coronary artery bypass surgery times
four on [**7-2**].  His postoperative course was complicated by
an acute left hemothorax requiring re-exploration,
respiratory failure with failed extubation times three,
paralyzed left hemidiaphragm, status post trach and
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy, multiple episodes of
rapid atrial fibrillation, worsening congestive heart failure
and left upper extremity weakness secondary to a possible
cortical or subcortical stroke.

The following is a summary of the patient's operations:  1.
[**2136-7-2**], coronary artery bypass graft times four, his
grafts  are left internal mammary artery to left anterior
descending, saphenous vein graft to PL, saphenous vein graft
to ramus and saphenous vein graft to diagonal.  2.  [**2136-7-3**], mediastinal and left hemithorax exploration for
bleeding.  3.  [**2136-7-20**], tracheostomy and percutaneous
gastrostomy placement.

The remainder of the patient's hospitalization is dictated by
systems:

Cardiovascular - The patient presented to the Emergency
Department in rapid atrial flutter.  He progressively
developed hypotension and required synchronise cardioversion.
He was admitted to the Cardiology Service.  Cardiothoracic
Surgery was consulted to place an intra-aortic balloon pump
in him.  He stabilized over the course of several days.
Initially it was felt that the patient was not an operative
candidate and would instead be best suited to have several
months of medical management after which time perhaps he
would be a better candidate for revascularization.  During
his hospitalization he developed continued chest pain,
requiring nitroglycerin and heparin drip.  For this reason,
despite the patient's high risk status, he agreed to go ahead
with surgery.  On [**2136-8-2**] the patient went to the
Operating Room for coronary artery bypass graft times four as
described above.  The procedure itself was unremarkable.  He
was transported intubated to the Cardiac Surgery Intensive
Care Unit on Propofol, Milrinone, Levophed and Aprotinin
drips.  The following day he was found to have developed an
acute left hemothorax that required a return trip to the
Operating Room.  While there he had a mediastinal and left
hemithorax exploration.  The patient returned to the Cardiac
Surgery Intensive Care Unit intubated on Milrinone, Propofol
and Levophed drips.  The following day, during his first
failed extubation he developed rapid atrial fibrillation.
During the next 18 days he spent in the Intensive Care Unit
he had repeated episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation that
required loading with intravenous Amiodarone.  After about
seven or eight days many of his pressors were able to be
weaned off and he required only an Amiodarone drip.  Soon
Lasix drips were added to aid with his diuresis as he
developed a metabolic acidosis.  Diamox was also added.  An
electrophysiology consult was obtained for input as how to
best manage his atrial fibrillation.  They felt that his
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and hypotension may actually
be due to overdiuresis and intravascular volume depletion.
In addition they were suspicious that perhaps the patient's
thyroid status may be contributing to this.  He had a
transthoracic echocardiogram that demonstrated an ejection
fraction of approximately 30% in addition to severely
depressed left ventricular systolic function and severe left
ventricular hypokinesis around the time he was started on a
heparin drip to anticoagulate him.  Eventually he remained in
a sinus rhythm or sinus tachycardia and did not have a
recurrence of his arrhythmia.  Before he left the Intensive
Care Unit he was loaded orally with Amiodarone 400 mg three
times a day.  In addition he was kept on Lopressor 25 mg
twice a day.  Once the patient came to the floor a consult
was obtained from the Congestive Heart Failure Service.  They
initially thought he would benefit from an ACE inhibitor and
also required more diuresis as he had a prominent amount of
jugulovenous distension and continued to have 3+ pitting
edema of his lower legs.  Their recommendation initially was
to start him on an ACE inhibitor, diurese him more and
eventually increase the dose of his beta blocker after his
total body volume has been decreased.  However, the patient
became mildly hypotensive on initial attempts to dose him
with Captopril.  In addition he had some transient rises in
his creatinine with intravenous Lasix.  It was unclear at the
time whether or not this was due to the medication or fluid
intake.  Regardless, multiple small changes had to be made in
his regimen.  Ultimately by the time of his discharge he had
been on Lasix 80 mg intravenously b.i.d. and this was
converted to Bumex 3 mg b.i.d. p.o.  In addition he was
started on a very low dose of Zestril at 2.5 mg p.o. q. day
and his Am