Admission Date:  [**2157-9-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2157-10-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2097-2-6**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 60 year old male with
a history of noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus,
hypertension and recent cerebrovascular accident two months
ago who presented to an outside hospital with complaints of
substernal chest pain radiating to the right shoulder.  Chest
pain was associated with dyspnea and diaphoresis.  No
complaints of palpitations, nausea, vomiting, lightheadedness
or focal weakness.  There was no headache.  The patient was
taken to [**Hospital 47**] Hospital where he was given intravenous
nitroglycerin, Lopressor and aspirin.  No total parenteral
alimentation or heparin was given because of his recent
cerebrovascular accident.  The patient was then transferred
to [**Hospital6 256**] for further
evaluation and management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Type 2 diabetes mellitus,
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, cerebrovascular accident
two months ago.  The patient also gives a history of four
prior cerebrovascular accidents in the recent past.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Coumadin which he takes for his recent stroke,
Lipitor, Protonix, Avandia, Glucophage and Zoloft.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Unavailable.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unavailable.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs revealed temperature 98.0,
pulse 80, blood pressure 110/60, respirations 16.
Oxygenation was 95% on room air.  In general he was a well
nourished, well dressed male in no acute distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat, normocephalic, atraumatic.
Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular
motions intact.  Oropharynx was clear.  Neck, no
lymphadenopathy, no jugulovenous distension.  Trachea was
midline.  Cardiovascular, normal S1 and S2, regular rate and
rhythm, no S3, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Pulmonary,
bilaterally clear to auscultation.  Abdomen soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.  No
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities, warm with 2+ pulses and no
edema.  Neurological examination, he was alert and oriented
times three.  Question of facial droop on the left side that
could perhaps be explained by his recent cerebrovascular
accident.

LABORATORY DATA:  Labs on admission revealed complete blood
count, white blood count 6, hematocrit 34, platelets 274,
differential 56% polys, 15% lymphocytes, 10% bands.  Chem-7
sodium 139, potassium 4.5, chloride 103, bicarbonate 27, BUN
37, creatinine 2.0, glucose 226, AST was 47, ALT 19, alkaline
phosphatase 87, CK was 2,176 with an MB portion of 318.  The
troponin was greater than 50.  Electrocardiogram showed
normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 60, left axis deviation,
normal intervals, [**Street Address(2) 1766**] depressions in leads 2, 3, AVF, V5
and V6.  There were ST elevations in leads V1 and V2 with a
biphasic T wave in lead V2.  Chest x-ray showed mild to
moderate congestive heart failure.

IMPRESSION:  This is a 60 year old male with Type 1 diabetes,
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and recent stroke who
presented with acute myocardial infarction.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular - Given the patient's acute myocardial
infarction, the patient was brought to cardiac
catheterization.  Extensive three vessel disease was seen
with extensive collaterals.  Of note there was left anterior
descending artery occlusion which was thought to be more than
24 hours in age.  The wedge pressure was 25, the pulmonary
artery pressure was 43/26, cardiac output was 4.33 with a
cardiac index of 2.27.  An intraaortic balloon was placed and
no revascularization was attempted at that time.  The
cardiothoracic surgery service was consulted and it was felt
that he would not be a good candidate for coronary artery
bypass surgery.  After his catheterization he was transferred
to the Coronary Intensive Care Unit.  There he began to
complain of increasing chest pain that at its peak was
measured at 8 out of 10 in severity.  Electrocardiogram
showed new right bundle branch block and left anterior
hemiblock as well as inferior ST depressions.  This pain
resolved with morphine, nitroglycerin and p.o. Lopressor.  On
the morning of [**9-26**], the patient had several episodes
of asystolic arrest and complete heartblock. The patient had
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and was intubated.  He received
Atropine, Epinephrine and Dopamine as well as a temporary V
pacing wire and was brought back to the Catheterization
Laboratory.  There, a stent was placed in the left anterior
descending lesion.  Following the catheterization he was
noted to be hypotensive despite pressors so a stat
echocardiogram was performed that showed an ejection fraction
of 15% but there was no ventriculoseptal defect nor was there
severe mitral regurgitation seen.  The patient's conduction
defect initially resolved but his right bundle branch block
recurred intermittently over the next several days.  An
external pacemaker was placed using the existing temporary
lead and then on [**10-3**], an implantable cardioverter
defibrillator was placed.

A repeat echocardiogram was performed that showed an ejection
fraction of 30 to 35%.  Extensive apical, septal and anterior
akinesis were seen.  After the patient was weaned off of
pressors, we titrated up his beta blocker as tolerated.
Although this patient has a potential to benefit from an ACE
inhibitor, this was not started because of his renal failure.
We did start him on a nitrate prior to discharge.

We continued his aspirin and Lipitor.  We also started him on
Plavix.

2.  Renal - Following the patient's asystolic arrest, the
patient was found to have a rise in creatinine.  This peaked
at 6.5.  His acute renal failure was thought to be secondary
to acute tubular necrosis secondary to the dye load he
received during his cardiac catheterization as well as due
prerenal components secondary to his asystolic arrest.  The
renal service was consulted.  He had extensive volume
overload so hemodialysis was initiated on [**9-29**], and
[**9-30**].  He did not require additional dialysis as his
renal failure resolved with time.  His creatinine on the day
prior to discharge was 2.7.  He will likely continue to
improve but it should be noted that his baseline creatinine
on admission was 2.0, so there seems to be an element of
chronic renal insufficiency as well.

3.  Pulmonary - The patient was intubated during his
asystolic arrest and required ventilatory support, but mostly
due to his pulmonary edema resulting from overload secondary
to his renal failure, as well as due to his congestive heart
failure.  He was treated with Lasix as well as hemodialysis
as mentioned above.  He was successfully weaned off of the
ventilator on [**10-1**].  He autodiuresed as he recovered
from his renal failure and required no additional Lasix
following extubation.  Chest x-ray performed two days prior
to discharge showed almost complete resolution of his
pulmonary edema and his oxygen saturation on the day prior to
discharge was 93% on room air.

4.  Hematology - The patient had decrease in hematocrit into
the mid 20s so he was transfused for a goal hematocrit of 30.
His decreased hematocrit was likely secondary to his renal
failure.  He had a brief increase in his PT thought secondary
to the development of shocked liver from his asystolic
arrest, however this resolved the following day.  Laboratory
results are not consistent with DIC nor was there evidence of
hemolysis.  Following improvement of his renal function his
hematocrit was stable at around 32 to 36.

The patient was admitted on Coumadin which he was taking for
his recent cerebrovascular accident.  In addition we found
his post myocardial infarction echocardiogram to be
concerning for left ventricular hypokinesis.  This represents
another indication for anticoagulation.  Therefore the
patient was on a heparin drip and we started Coumadin.  His
INR the day before discharge was 1.2.  The goal should be 2
to 3.

5.  Infectious disease - The patient was found to have a
urinary tract infection.  He was treated with Levofloxacin.
The pathogen was identified as Staphylococcus aureus
sensitive 