Admission Date:  [**2130-9-7**]       Discharge Date:  [**2130-9-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2056-9-27**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Dysuria.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old
gentleman with a history of cadaveric renal transplant in
[**2122**] who presented to the Emergency Department with a fever
of 104, malaise, nausea, and vomiting times one day.

The patient noted that the day prior to admission he
developed some mild back pain which improved but did not
abate with over-the-counter pain medications.  The patient
also complained of mild urinary frequency, and stated that
because of his nausea and vomiting he had been taking very
oral intake over the past four to five days.  The patient
denied any lightheadedness or any tachycardia with rising.
He denied sweats, weight loss, headache, or a change in his
chronic cough.  The patient denied any sick contacts, recent
travel, or recent changes in his medications.

On presentation to the Emergency Department, the patient was
febrile to 103 degrees Fahrenheit.  He was given 500 mg of by
mouth Levaquin and was fluid resuscitated with two liters of
normal saline, and he was admitted to the Medicine Service.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post cadaveric renal transplant in [**2122**] for focal
segmental glomerulosclerosis.
2.  History of atrial fibrillation; status post VVI
pacemaker.
3.  Left ventricular hypertrophy with mitral regurgitation.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Grave's disease; status post subtotal thyroidectomy.
6.  History of upper gastrointestinal bleed; status post
truncal vagotomy in [**2119**].
7.  Right eye blindness.

MEDICATIONS ON PRESENTATION:
 1.  Valsartan 160 mg by mouth twice per day.
 2.  Prograf 0.5 mg by mouth twice per day.
 3.  CellCept [**Pager number **] mg by mouth twice per day.
 4.  Prednisone 5 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Lasix 80 mg by mouth q.a.m. and 40 mg by mouth q.p.m.
 6.  Terazosin 5 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Amlodipine 5 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq by mouth once per day
 9.  Levothyroxine 175 mcg by mouth every day.
10.  Carafate by mouth once per day.
11.  Multivitamin one tablet by mouth once per day.
12.  Prilosec.
13.  Timolol.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed vital signs with a temperature of 99.6 degrees
Fahrenheit, his temperature maximum was 103, his blood
pressure was 116/31, his heart rate was 63, respiratory rate
was 18, and oxygen saturation was 98% on 2 liters.  In
general, an ill-appearing gentleman in no apparent distress.
Alert and oriented times three.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination revealed the patient was blind in the
right eye.  The patient had bilateral periorbital edema.  The
mucous membranes were moist.  No exudates or lesions were
noted.  The tympanic membranes were clear.  No cervical
lymphadenopathy.  The neck was supple.  No jugular venous
distention.  Cardiovascular examination revealed normal first
heart sounds and second heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs, or
gallops.  The lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Normal
active bowel sounds.  No costovertebral angle tenderness.
Extremity examination revealed 1+ pitting edema bilaterally
in the feet.  Extremities revealed no rash or lesions.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
presentation revealed his white blood cell count was 14.5
(with 92% polys and 34% lymphocytes, 5% monocytes, and no
bands), his hematocrit was 39.9, and his platelets were 129.
His sodium was 140, potassium was 3.8, chloride was 102,
bicarbonate was 26, blood urea nitrogen was 36, and
creatinine was 1.9 (with a baseline creatinine of between 1.7
to 1.9).  His lactate was 2.  Calcium, magnesium, and
phosphorous were all within normal limits.  Urinalysis
revealed moderate leukocyte esterase, large blood, negative
nitrites, 30 protein, 6 to 10 red blood cells, greater than
50 white blood cells, many bacteria, and less than 1
epithelial cell.  Urine cultures and blood cultures were
taken.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed no
infiltrates and no congestive heart failure.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted
to the resident-only Medicine Service and followed closely by
the Renal team given his history of a renal transplant.

Approximately one hour after admission, his blood pressure
dipped down from 120 down to 85.  The patient was given two
liters of normal saline rapidly in the Emergency Department
without a response in his blood pressure.  The patient had a
left femoral central line placed for rapid volume
resuscitation.  The Renal team felt that, given his renal
transplant, it was very important to maintain adequate renal
perfusion.  The patient was given two doses of intravenous
Zosyn and one dose of intravenous vancomycin in the Emergency
Department given the fact that the patient was developing
overwhelming sepsis.

A Medical Intensive Care Unit evaluation was called.  The
patient was aggressively volume resuscitation in the
Emergency Department with a total of up to eight liters of
intravenous fluids and was started on dopamine.  Thereafter,
the patient's blood pressure came up quickly to 140 systolic.
During this entire time, the patient did not have any
confusion of mental status changes, and he did not have any
problems with chest pain.  His electrocardiogram showed only
minor transient lateral wall T wave inversions which
normalized within one day and were thought to be nonspecific
after consulting Cardiology.

The patient was taken to the Medical Intensive Care Unit and
was followed in the Intensive Care Unit for approximately
four days.  During that time, he was only on pressors for 24
hours.  The dopamine was weaned off, and the patient was
transiently on Levophed.

The patient's urine cultures grew out Klebsiella which was
sensitive to Levaquin, and the patient was transferred once
again to oral Levaquin.  The patient's blood cultures
remained negative throughout his stay.  His sputum cultures
also, once again, remained negative.  The patient complained
of two to three bowel movements which were loose, and he had
two Clostridium difficile toxins were sent off; which were
both negative.  Due to the risk of infection and his
immunocompromised state, the patient's left femoral catheter
was removed, and he had a left central line placed under
sterile technique.  The catheter tip from the femoral line
was sent off for culture, and even after three to four days
it was no growth to date.

The Renal team followed the patient's course closely.  Given
the fact that the patient had a hypotensive episode, his
creatinine levels were followed once per day.  The patient's
creatinine did rise as high as 2.3 from a baseline of 1.9
upon admission.  His urinalysis revealed casts which were
consistent with acute tubular necrosis due to his
hypertensive episode.  The Renal team decreased his Prograf
to 0.5 mg by mouth once per day and checked a level to insure
that he was not developing some renal damage due to the
immunosuppressive medications.

The patient continued to have some difficulty with shortness
of breath in the Intensive Care Unit.  He had a repeat chest
x-ray which did in fact reveal a pneumonia.  It was thought
that once the patient was adequately volume resuscitated, the
pneumonia revealed itself.  A bibasilar consolidation with
prominence on the lateral view was seen on a
posterior/anterior and lateral chest x-ray, and it was
thought that the patient had an aspiration pneumonia.
According to his wife, the patient had one period prior to
admission where he was confused and vomited.  It was most
likely that he had aspirated during that event.  Due to this,
Levaquin was continued, and the patient was started on Flagyl
as well for anaerobic coverage.

Also, the patient was in gross volume overload in the
Intensive Care Unit given his volume resuscitation.  The
patient was diuresed with intravenous diuretics and also was
on Natrecor for two days to assist in his diuresis.  The
patient put out approxim