Admission Date:  [**2179-12-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2179-12-30**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **] year-old
white male with a history of prostate cancer status post
radiation therapy complicated by radiation proctitis who
previously had a lower GI bleed in [**2177-11-10**] as well as
recent hospitalization for lower GI bleed and rule out MI who
now presents with episode bright red blood per rectum on date
of admission. He also has lightheadedness. He denies any
chest pain, shortness of breath, or fevers.  He does have
some right lower quadrant pain which he reports is chronic.
He denies any melena or hematochezia.

In the Emergency Department the patient was noted to have a
hematocrit of 30.4 which is a slight decrease from 31.7 on
the date of discharge two days of prior.  He was
hemodynamically stable.  He had no episodes of bright red
blood per rectum in the ER.   Two large bore IVs were placed
and a type and cross was sent.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Prostate cancer status post radiation therapy complicated
by radiation proctitis.
2.  Admission for lower GI bleed in [**2177-11-10**] which he
had coloscopy which showed diffuse diverticulosis with no
sign of active bleeding but positive radiation proctitis.
3.  He had an admission in [**2179-11-11**] in which he had
decreased hematocrit down to 23 and guaiac positive stool and
Troponin of 2.1.  However by CKs he was ruled out for
myocardial infarction.  He was transfused with a hematocrit
of 31.
4.  He has a gait disturbance secondary to microvascular
cerebral disease.
5.  Chronic renal insufficiency baseline of 1.5.
6.  Congestive heart failure EF 30 to 40%.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Prilosec 20 mg po q day.
2.  Casodex 50 mg po q day.
3.  Aspirin.

ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his wife and with her help
able to handle own activities of daily living with his
family's assistance.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Blood pressure is 113/57, heart rate
72, respiratory rate is between 13 and 16 and saturation at
96%.  General - he is alert, conversant, in no apparent
distress.  Neck is supple with no JVD or lymphadenopathy.
HEENT - moist mucous membranes. Oropharynx is clear.
Cardiovascular - regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs,
rubs, or gallops.  Respiratory - soft, bibasilar rales with
decreased breath sounds in left upper lobe.  Abdomen with
positive bowel sounds, mildly distended with right lower
quadrant tenderness.  Extremities - 1 to 2+ dorsalis pedis
and posterior tibialis arteries.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 9.3, hematocrit 30.4, platelet
count 56,000. INR 1.1, PTT 25.6, 75 neutrophils, 0 basophils,
0 bands.  Sodium 137, potassium 4.3, chloride 102, bicarb 27,
BUN 44, creatinine 1.7, glucose 89, CK 49, Troponin 0.5.

EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at 60 beats per minute with
left axis deviation and early R wave transition.  Q waves in
II, III, aVF, V5 and V6 which are old with new T wave
inversion in V4.  Transthoracic echo done on [**2179-12-13**]
showed EF 30 to 40% with mild symmetric LVH. Right ventricle
noted to have normal systolic motion, thickened aortic valve
with no stenosis, mitral valve with 1 to 1+ MR, delayed
relaxation, 1+ TR.

Chest x-ray showed no acute pulmonary disease. No evidence of
CHF.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **] year-old white male who
was admitted for an episode of bright red blood per rectum.
His was initially treated for his GI issues.

1.  Gastrointestinal - The patient came in with bright red
blood per rectum. Did not have any episodes during this
admission.  He was initially stabilized with twice daily
hematocrit checks and was given large bore IVs.  He was typed
and crossed.  The goal was to keep his hematocrit above 30.
Because of his low ejection fraction he was given a small
amount of drinking fluids.  A Gastrointestinal consult was
obtained in which it was recommended for him to go for a
colonoscopy.  If he had any active bleeding it was decided he
would go for a tagged red blood cell scan or an angiogram.
He went for a colonoscopy on [**2179-12-16**] the following
day of his admission. During that procedure it was discovered
that he had diverticulosis of the colon and angiectasias in
the rectum. Also discovered was a mass in the proximal
ascending colon which was biopsied. He also had polyps in the
ascending colon which were removed.  On direct directions
from GI after the colonoscopy was performed was to avoid
aspirin and ANSAID and to start iron replacement therapy.

It was felt that the mass found in the proximal ascending
colon was most likely to be adenocarcinoma.  The patient
continued to have bowel movements with blood clots in them.
Hematology / Oncology was then also consulted and recommended
he have surgery if the family wished for it or palliative
care.

The family was interested in considering surgery.
Consequently a surgical consult was placed.  Surgery felt
that he was in danger of bleeding without intervention.
Consequently they recommended surgery. The family agreed and
consented to perform surgery.

He had the surgery on [**2179-12-18**].  During the procedure
a right-sided hemicolectomy was performed. There were no
complications during the actual procedure.

On postoperative day one the patient complained of substernal
chest pain and shortness of breath.  After having
catheterization done was transferred to the CCU.

Further GI issues - he had a prolonged course in which he did
not eat.  Consequently TPN was started. TPN was continued for
approximately one week starting on [**2179-12-24**].  After
he was able to have bowel sounds and then had bowel
movements.  He had improved po intake on [**2179-12-29**]
and the TPN was discontinued on [**2179-12-30**]. The
staples were removed on [**2179-12-28**].  The wound site
had some drainage of serous sanguinous fluid but was
controlled with dressing.  He had a right-sided flank
ecchymosis which did not enlarge and he only required one
transfusion after the operation.

2.  Cardiac - The patient developed substernal chest pain
postoperative day one of his surgery.  He had shortness of
breath.  The EKG was suggestive of an anterior septal injury.
The pain was slowly responding to medical treatment; however,
the ST segments remained elevated after the onset.   He had
probably a previous myocardial infarction in the inferior
part of his heart resulting in low EF. Because of his surgery
he was not given any IIb or IIIa antagonists.  The EEG had
shown ST elevations in V2 were very prominent.  Prior EKG had
not showed ST elevations V1 through V4. He has also had acute
inferior leads but that is from an old MI.  It was felt that
he had an anteroseptal MI and was brought to cardiac
catheterization.  During this episode he was given aspirin
and sublingual Nitro. At that time he was transfused two
units of blood.  Initially some considerations were cardiac
catheterization that day however he initially was treated
medically with Heparin and aspirin. It was felt that he was
possibly overloaded and was given some Lasix.  His enzymes
were cycled and he had cardiac catheterization on the
following day.

Cardiac catheterization revealed left main coronary artery
with ulcerated 90% thrombotic stenosis which included the
ostium of the LAD. The LAD had an ostial 90% with moderate
calcifications.  The left circumflex as the dominant vessel.
The right coronary artery was the nondominant vessel with
moderate severe diffuse disease.  During the catheterization
he had an Angioject thrombectomy on the left main and LAD.  A
stent was placed in the left main and into the LAD.  The
final result was 0% residual in the LAD and 30% in the left
main.  The ostium in the left circumflex was uncompromised.

After the procedure he was continued on heparin for 48 hours.
He was given clopidogrel, which was to be continued for 30
days.  During the catheterization he had an intra-aortic
balloon pump placed. He was also intubated.  The aortic
balloon pump was placed because of hypotension after the
first dye injection. He was intubated in the setting of
hemodynamic instability. Subsequently he was transferred to
th