Admission Date: [**2146-12-10**]        Discharge Date: [**2146-12-16**]

Date of Birth:  [**2091-10-10**]        Sex:  F

Service:  VSU


Fifty-five-year-old female who was Med Flighted to our
emergency room with a chief complaint of lower back pain and
chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 55-year-old female
with known history of hypertension who presents to [**Hospital3 **]Hospital with a report of a type B aortic dissection.
She began to have lower back pain this morning around 11:00
a.m. which progressed to the upper back chest pain. Pain
radiating to the thighs and some nausea. The pain is entirely
gone now, however, she did have some nausea. She did receive
Dilaudid for pain control at [**Location (un) **]. Her nausea has also
resolved. She denies any trauma. She denies ever having
anything like this before. She has recently completed a
course of antibiotics for bronchitis which has entirely
resolved. The patient denies any abdominal pain. Last bowel
movement was this morning, it did not have any blood in it.
Urine has been normal frequency, color and without blood.
Patient's blood pressure at [**Location (un) **] was 185/69 with a heart
rate of 110. Blood pressure on admission here 97/45.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Allergies to bee stings. Illnesses
include hypertension and recent bronchitis. Medications at
home include quinapril 40 mg daily, questionable
hydrochlorothiazide, the patient was not sure and Estroven
OTC.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient is married with two adult sons. She
is denies tobacco or drug use and has a glass of scotch per
night.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs 97.8, 69, 19, O2 sat 97%
on 4 liters, blood pressure 94/45. The patient is mildly
somnolent but arousable and oriented x3 in no acute distress.
Carotids were without bruits. The heart has a regular rate
and rhythm without murmur, gallop or rub. Lungs are clear to
auscultation. Abdominal exam is soft, nontender,
nondistended, stools are guaiac negative. Pulse exam shows
palpable radials, femorals, popliteals, DP and PT. The
patient had a CTA done which demonstrated a 4.2 cm ascending
aortic aneurysm, intramural hematoma distal to the left
subclavian origin to the aortic bifurcation, the aortic
ulceration was just distal to the left subclavian. There is a
small intrarenal aortic dissection with no involvement of the
celiac, SMA or renal arteries. White count was 11.4 with
hematocrit 33.8, BUN 12, creatinine 0.7, K 2.9, repleted, CK
43, MB was not done, troponin was 0.01, lactate was 1.1. LFTs
were normal. EKG was normal sinus rhythm with a trace to [**Street Address(2) 28585**] depressions in the laterally leads.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially evaluated in the
emergency room and admitted to the ICU for blood pressure
control. Goal was to maintain a systolic blood pressure
between 100-120. By hospital day #3 the patient's of blood
pressure was under control and she was allowed to resume
p.o.'s. The patient was followed by the cardiac service. She
was begun on an ACE inhibitor and a beta blocker and
labetalol drip was weaned for a mean arterial pressure of 70
and a heart rate greater than 60. ID was consulted for
concerns of possibility of aortitis. Their recommendations
were to continue the vancomycin, ceftriaxone and stools for
Salmonella and an RPR, then regular stool cultures and send
the usual inflammatory markers with three blood cultures
which were pending. Patient's ESR was 15. Her CRP was 12.5.
Her hepatitis A and B and C screens were all negative. Her
ANCA was negative by indirect immunofluorescence.
Rheumatology was requested to see the patient. They did not
feel that the patient had any underlying rheumatoid disorder
which would contribute to her aortic dissection. The patient
was transferred to the VICU on [**2146-12-13**]. Her beta
blockade anti-hypertensive medicines were increased to
improve her blood pressure control with continued improvement
with medication adjustments in her blood pressure.
Ceftriaxone was discontinued on [**2146-12-14**]. The
vancomycin was continued. The patient was tolerating p.o.'s.
Her A-line was discontinued on [**2146-12-15**] and the
patient was transferred to the regular floor for continued
care. Blood pressure at that time was 115/67. Pulse exam
remained unchanged. Her white count was 8.1 with hematocrit
of 28.9. BUN and creatinine remained stable. Remaining
hospital course was unremarkable. The patient was discharged
to home on anti-hypertensive medications with VNA services to
teach the patient blood pressure monitoring. The patient
should follow up with her primary care physician within the
week of discharge for continued monitoring of her blood
pressure. She should monitor blood pressure twice a day and
record the findings in the a.m. and just prior to bedtime.
She should take all medications as directed. She should call
us if she develops any new chest, back or flank pain.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Infrarenal aortic dissection with
thoracic aortic ulceration hypertension. The patient should
follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] in 3 months time after having a
CTA of the chest, abdomen and pelvic vessels.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Amlodipine 10 mg daily, metoprolol
100 mg q.i.d., quinapril 80 mg daily, pentamidine 20 mg
q.12h.



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2380**], [**MD Number(1) 2381**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2382**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2146-12-16**] 09:51:21
T:  [**2146-12-18**] 10:03:48
Job#:  [**Job Number 75310**]
