Admission Date:  [**2143-3-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2143-4-10**]


Service:  ACOVE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   This is a 77-year-old male with
a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung
cancer status post right upper lobectomy, prostate cancer,
atrial fibrillation, hepatitis C, who presented with
progressive dyspnea on exertion.  The patient was recently
hospitalized in [**2143-1-4**] with pulmonary embolism,
rapid atrial fibrillation, and then discharged to
rehabilitation.  The patient then went home and was doing
well but, over the last few weeks, noted increasing dyspnea
on exertion, and inability to ambulate around his house.  The
patient noted that he had been coughing up yellow phlegm, and
had been having significant pleuritic chest pain with cough.
The patient denied fevers, chills, chest pain, nausea,
vomiting, diarrhea, dysuria, anorexia.  The patient was
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] from [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] Hospital in [**Location (un) 5028**].  There, he was treated with
oral lasix, ceftriaxone, and received a chest CT scan.  The
patient notes new two pillow orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea, and increasing lower extremity edema.  He notes,
after being on his feet just 15 minutes, he has much
increased lower extremity swelling.  He does note some
dietary indiscretion, particularly with salt recently.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Prostate cancer status post transurethral resection of
prostate
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (no history of
pulmonary function tests)
3.  Hypertension
4.  Atrial fibrillation (requiring esmolol drip at admission
in [**2143-1-4**])
5.  Hepatitis C
6.  Adenocarcinoma of the lung status post right upper lobe
resection with right middle lobe wedge resection, collapse
leading to pleurodesis
7.  Pulmonary embolism in [**2143-1-4**], treated with
heparin and inferior vena cava filter
8.  History of methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus
positive sputum
9.  Echocardiogram in [**2143-1-4**]:  Ejection fraction 15
to 20%, with left atrial and right atrial dilation, severe
left ventricular depression, anterior, inferior and septal
akinesis, severe right ventricular hypokinesis, 1+ mitral
regurgitation, 3+ tricuspid regurgitation, moderate pulmonary
artery systolic hypertension

MEDICATIONS:   Coumadin 2.5 mg by mouth alternating with 5 mg
by mouth once daily, Cardizem 300 mg by mouth once daily,
Protonix 40 mg by mouth once daily, ACE inhibitor unknown
type and dose, Lopressor 50 mg by mouth four times a day,
Serevent two puffs twice a day, Atrovent two puffs four times
a day, multivitamin one by mouth once daily, Co-Enzyme Q,
iron supplement, vitamin C, calcium supplement, lasix (the
patient has not been taking).

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   The patient is married, lives with his wife
in [**Name (NI) **].  He has a 52 pack year smoking history.  He
drinks two rum and cokes per day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   Vital signs:  Temperature 98.1, blood
pressure 120/74, pulse 81, respirations 18.  General:  A
pleasant, elderly male, in no apparent distress.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat:  Mucous membranes moist, oropharynx
clear.  Head normocephalic, atraumatic, pupils equal, round
and reactive to light.  Neck:  Jugular venous distention at
approximately 8 cm.  No lymphadenopathy.  Lungs:  Scattered
wheezes throughout, some rhonchi on the right.
Cardiovascular:  Irregularly irregular rhythm with normal
rate.  S1, S2 present.  Grade II/VI systolic murmur.
Abdomen:  Bowel sounds present, soft, nondistended,
nontender, no masses.  Extremities:  2+ ankle edema, 2+ lower
extremity pulses.  Bilateral ankle deformities with clubbing
of the toes bilaterally.  Neurologic:  Alert and oriented x
3, nonfocal, full strength.  Skin:  Bronze skin.

LABORATORY DATA:   On admission, white blood cell count 6.5,
hematocrit 31.2, platelets 225.  PT 21.0, INR 2.9, PTT 40.
CK 117, MB 4.9, troponin less than 0.3.  Sodium 129,
potassium 4.3, chloride 108, bicarbonate 39, BUN 14,
creatinine 0.8, glucose 135.  Arterial blood gas:  7.4/54/72.
Electrocardiogram showed junctional rhythm at 65, with left
bundle branch block, poor R wave progression.  Chest x-ray:
2 cm nodular opacity at the left lung base, which is new.
Postoperative changes with nonspecific interstitial patterns,
thin-walled cystic structure.  CT of the chest:
Post-thoracotomy changes, pulmonary nodule at the left lung
base, approximately 2 cm, pleurally-based, new from scan in
[**2142-10-4**], bilateral blebs with nonspecific
interstitial changes in the right lower lobe with volume loss
and small effusion, diffuse osteoblastic metastases.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This 77-year-old male with a history of
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer status
post right upper lobe lobectomy, prostate cancer, atrial
fibrillation, cardiomyopathy, pulmonary embolus, hepatitis C,
presents with increasing dyspnea on exertion.  He was
admitted to the ACOVE service and later to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit service for care.

1.  Cardiovascular:  This patient, who presented with dyspnea
on exertion and increasing orthopnea, was known to have a
depressed ejection fraction at baseline.  He underwent a
repeat echocardiogram in the hospital during this admission,
which showed, under a limited study, a depressed left
ventricular function with mildly dilated left atrium and
dilated right atrium.  The patient was ruled out for
myocardial infarction.  He experienced several episodes of
rapid atrial fibrillation with symptoms of congestive heart
failure.  These were treated successfully with lasix,
morphine, and rate controlling agents.

A Cardiology consult was obtained on [**3-23**] for assistance
with management of these episodes, and recommended continued
ACE inhibitor, Diltiazem, Digoxin, and Coumadin therapies.
The patient experienced a run of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia of approximately seven beats on [**3-29**], but was
otherwise asymptomatic, with stable vital signs.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient was known to have increasing
dyspnea on exertion at admission.  Shortly after being
admitted, the patient developed tachypnea, hypoxia, and
hypercarbia.  Arterial blood gas at that time revealed a pH
of 7.10, PCO2 110, PAO2 136 on 100% non-rebreather.  The
patient was initially given nebulizers, oxygen, 40 mg of
intravenous lasix, and morphine.  The patient had a
significant clinical response to these interventions and was
taken to the Medical Intensive Care Unit service for
continued monitoring.  Repeat arterial blood gas revealed a
pH of 7.32, PCO2 68, PAO2 189 on 100% non-rebreather.  It was
thought at this time that the patient had developed flash
pulmonary edema.  He was successfully treated with the above
medications and subsequently tried on trials of BiPAP.  His
respiratory status continued to improve.

On [**3-24**], Solu-Medrol was added to the patient's
medication regimen out of concern that a component of his
respiratory course was due to chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.  The Solu-Medrol was tapered and gradually
transitioned to a prednisone taper by the end of the
admission.

On [**3-25**], while in the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the
patient was found unresponsive and was found to have a gas
showing pH 7.05, PCO2 152, PAO2 383, with room air oxygen
saturations approximately 70%, and blood pressure
approximately 80/40.  At that time, the patient was intubated
for hypercarbic respiratory failure on [**3-25**].  The patient
was gradually weaned to pressure support ventilation and
successfully extubated on [**3-30**].  There were no further
episodes of respiratory distress while in the hospital.

3.  Infectious Disease:  On [**3-26**], given the patient's
recent intubation as well as an increasing leukocytosis, the
medical team decided to begin the patient on levofloxacin and
vancomycin antibiotic therapy as treatment for a bacterial
tracheobronchitis.  The patient completed a ten day course of
vancomycin.  At the time of this dictation on [**4-9**], the
patient is completing a 14 day course of levofloxacin.  The
patient has remained afebrile si