Admission Date:  [**2137-12-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2137-12-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2076-12-15**]       Sex:  M

Service:  ICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Sepsis/respiratory distress.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a pleasant 60
year old gentleman who has an extensive past medical history
consisting of cerebrovascular accident, hypertension,
depression, who was recently discharged from the [**Hospital1 346**] on [**2137-11-9**], after presenting here
with rhabdomyolysis, status post fall at home.  The patient
was sent to the [**Hospital3 537**] on discharge with his CKs
trending down and his renal function improving.  On the
morning of admission, the patient was found on the floor at
the [**Hospital3 537**] and was sent immediately to the Emergency
Department where he was found to be in respiratory distress.
From the notes, it could be gathered that the patient did
present with some earlier shortness of breath and acute
mental status change the day prior to admission but had
improved with nebulizers on the day of admission.  The
patient's symptoms worsened and the patient was found
questionably unresponsive on the floor and so was immediately
brought into the Emergency Department.  In the Emergency
Department, his oxygen saturation was found to be 70% in room
air and it only improved to 78 to 80% on four liters nasal
cannula.  The patient was immediately intubated and sepsis
protocol was initiated given the white blood cell count was
23.4 and lactate was 9.1.  In addition, a chest x-ray was
also obtained that showed bilateral alveolar opacities, right
side worse than the left, and so was given Ceftriaxone and
Clindamycin for concern of aspiration pneumonia.  The patient
also was found to have elevated potassium and in acute renal
failure and so received Kayexalate, insulin, dextrose and was
transfused with two liters of intravenous fluids and
transferred to the [**Hospital Ward Name 332**] Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Cerebrovascular accident - three times.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Depression.
4.  History of alcohol abuse with withdrawal seizures.
5.  Osteoarthritis.
6.  Hypercholesterolemia.
7.  Status post appendectomy.
8.  Status post tonsillectomy.

ALLERGIES:  Questionable Percodan.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Phenytoin 350 mg p.o. q.a.m.
2.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. once daily.
3.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. once daily.
4.  Celexa 20 mg p.o. once daily.
5.  Percocet one to two tablets p.o. q4-6hours p.r.n.
6.  Plavix 75 mg p.o. once daily.
7.  Ativan 0.5 to 1.0 mg p.o. q4-6hours p.r.n.
8.  Atenolol 25 mg p.o. once daily.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient used to live by himself but
after most recent admission for rhabdomyolysis, the patient
was sent to the [**Hospital3 537**] and comes in today from the
[**Hospital3 537**].  He has a twenty pack year smoking history.
He used to drink but has had nothing for the past three
years.  He denies any intravenous drug abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs revealed temperature
101.4, pulse 89, blood pressure 78/26, respiratory rate 18,
intubated, AC 400 times 18, FIO2 100%.  In general,
comfortable, intubated.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat
examination - dry mucous membranes.  Lungs revealed decreased
breath sounds with crackles at the right lower bases.  The
heart shows S1 and S2, regular rate and rhythm, distant heart
sounds.  Abdomen reveals decreased bowel sounds,
nondistended, nontender.  Neurologically, intubated.
Extremities no cyanosis, clubbing or edema, warm, good
pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, white blood cell count 23.4,
hematocrit 26.5, platelet count 803,000, neutrophils 49,
bands 19, lymphocytes 25, monocytes 5.  Sodium 143, potassium
4.5, chloride 113, bicarbonate 18, blood urea nitrogen 81,
creatinine 3.2, glucose 251, calcium 9.5, magnesium 2.8,
phosphorus 4.6.

Electrocardiogram showed rate in the 90s, normal sinus
rhythm, normal axis, nonspecific ST-T wave changes.
Urinalysis and urine culture were negative.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Hypoxic respiratory failure - The patient was intubated
secondary to respiratory distress.  The initial working
diagnosis was community acquired pneumonia versus aspiration
pneumonia versus adult respiratory distress syndrome and so
the patient was started on Levofloxacin and Flagyl to cover
for aspiration pneumonia.  The patient's ventilation setting
also adjusted for concern for adult respiratory distress
syndrome.  The patient initially was placed on assist control
and seemed to have done well.  The patient was switched over
to pressure support of 10 and 5 and started bringing up a lot
of secretions.  The sputum was sent for culture and stain and
was found to be positive for Methicillin resistant
Staphylococcus aureus.  Hence, the patient was started on
Vancomycin to cover for Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus
aureus pneumonia.  An attempt was made for spontaneous
breathing trial in which it was found that the patient began
to work very hard and was over breathing the vent.  The
patient was kept on pressure support of 10 and 5 at the time
of this dictation.  At the time of this dictation, the
patient had already received seven days of Levofloxacin 500
mg once daily, seven days of Flagyl 500 mg p.o. three times a
day, and four days of Vancomycin one gram twice a day.

2.  Sepsis - The patient was admitted on the sepsis protocol
since he was tachycardic, hypertensive, febrile, elevated
white blood cell count, elevated lactate.  The patient was
aggressively fluid resuscitated in the first 24 hours to keep
a CVP of greater than 8.0.  The patient was also started on
stress dose steroids, Hydrocortisone 100 mg intravenously
three times a day which he continued for four days but then
was stopped because of growing [**Female First Name (un) 564**] in his sputum.  The
patient's blood pressure remained stable and urine output was
adequate and the patient did not require any pressors.  At
the time of this dictation, the patient was on three
antibiotics consisting of Vancomycin, Levofloxacin, and
Flagyl.  There is some concern that if the patient's
pneumonia does not improve and the secretions continue, maybe
a bronchoscopy should be considered to rule out any [**Female First Name (un) 564**]
infection in the lung tissue.

3.  Renal - The patient presented to the hospital with acute
renal failure and a creatinine of 3.2.  This is most likely
in the setting of hyperperfusion from him being in sepsis.
The patient was aggressively fluid resuscitated and his
creatinine improved from 3.2 to 0.8 at the time of this
dictation.  The patient's creatinine continued to be checked
and his medications were adjusted based on the creatinine
clearance.

4.  Cardiology - The patient does have a history of
hyperlipidemia at home but was not on any medication.  On
presentation, the patient's antihypertensive medications were
held but they were restarted when the patient's blood
pressure was stable.  In addition, the patient did rule in
with CKs in the 1000 and a troponin I peaking at 1.5.  It was
unclear whether this troponin leak was from demand ischemia
versus non ST elevation myocardial infarction versus his
renal failure, however, an echocardiogram was obtained that
showed an ejection fraction of greater than 55% with no wall
motion abnormalities, but this was a poor quality
echocardiogram and a repeat study was going to be performed.
The patient's CK and troponin peak continued to trend down
throughout the hospital course.

5.  Endocrine - The patient initially was critically ill and
was started on an insulin drip, however, on day five or six,
the patient's insulin drip was stopped and was switched over
to regular sliding scale insulin.

6.  Gastrointestinal - The patient initially was NPO and was
getting aggressive intravenous fluids.  The patient had an
episode of coffee ground emesis and there was a drop in his
hematocrit which was concerning and so the gastroenterology
team was consulted who performed an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy.  Esophagogastroduodenoscopy was
unremarkable except for a small erythema found along the
fundic region.  The patient's hematocrit continued to remain
stable.  The patient was started on tube fee