Admission Date:  [**2154-4-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2154-4-17**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:

Service:

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old female
with multiple medical problems including atrial fibrillation,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery
disease, congestive heart failure, who lives in a nursing
home at [**Hospital3 2558**], who was found to be pale and weak
with difficulty breathing.  The patient's oxygen saturation
on two liters was 61% and increased from 86% to 88% on eight
liters nasal cannula.  Vital signs at that time revealed the
following:  The patient was afebrile at 98.6, blood pressure
80/60, heart rate 96 to 120 and irregular.  She was
subsequently transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for further evaluation.  She was noted to have
significant respiratory distress breathing at 30.  She was
started on BiPAP.  She was found to be hypercapnic with
respiratory failure with pCO2 of 50, oxygen 99 and pH of
7.36.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction
in [**2144**] and [**2148**], CHF with EF of 20% to 25%; COPD on home
oxygen two liters, osteoarthritis, degenerative joint
disease, atrial fibrillation, aortic stenosis, gouty
arthritis, GERD, anxiety, history of adrenal insufficiency,
and 3+ PR and 2+ MR.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Coumadin 2.5 mg q.d.
2.  Multivitamin.
3.  Colace.
4.  Lasix 80 mg b.i.d.
5.  Ativan 0.25 mg q.8h.
6.  Albuterol inhaler.
7.  Atrovent inhaler.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, the patient was afebrile
at 98.  Blood pressure 92/64, heart rate 120, breathing at
34, saturating 96% on BiPAP.  GENERAL:  The patient is an
elderly-appearing female in respiratory distress, currently
on BiPAP.  HEART:  Heart revealed prominent external jugular
distention with no LAD, mild regurgitation.  CHEST:  Diffuse
crackles bilaterally.  CARDIAC:  Irregularly irregular
tachyatrial fibrillation, 3/6 systolic murmur at base.
ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  EXTREMITIES:  2+
lower extremity edema bilaterally up to the knees.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory data revealed the following:
Hematocrit 35.5, white blood cell count 13.9, platelet count
197,000, PT 20.6, PTT ...................., INR 3.  Urine
negative for nitrites.  BUN was 42, and creatinine 1.7.
Serial chest x-ray showed moderate cardiomegaly with some
bilateral opacifications in the left upper and right upper
lobes with multifocal pneumonia.  EKG showed atrial
fibrillation at 120, with poor R-wave progression with left
axis deviation, pseudochanges in T waves in V1 through V3,
compared to 6/[**2144**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:

#1.  PULMONARY:  The patient was subsequently placed on BiPAP
overnight, while in the MICU.  The oxygenation status
improved significantly overnight.  She was subsequently able
to tolerate saturation well.  On 5 liters nasal cannula
saturating 95%.  She was subsequently called out of the unit
and she was continued on Albuterol and Atrovent inhalers.
Chest CT and supplemental oxygen as well as Mucomyst.  She
was started on Levofloxacin for presumed pneumonia and sputum
cultures were sent.  Sputum culture subsequently came back
with MRSA pneumonia as well as H. influenza pneumonia.  The
patient was subsequently started on Vancomycin for treatment.
The patient's oxygenation status defervesced on hospital day
#4 at which point she was found to be in respiratory distress
once again, breathing at 44 and saturating 90% on 1%
nonrebreather.  The patient was subsequently transferred to
the unit once again.  However, overnight, she was
subsequently found to be grossly fluid overloaded, diuresed
aggressively.  The patient was initiated on Lasix, starting
at 40 mg p.o. and titrated up to 80 mg b.i.d. IV.  The
patient was subsequently transferred out of the unit after an
overnight stay and continued on supplemental oxygenation as
well as Albuterol and Atrovent.  She was started on Flovent
and Combivent metered dose inhalers.  She was also continued
on Lasix to 80 mg IV to maintain her fluid status.  The
patient was known to be in chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease and we maintained oxygen saturations to 91% to 95% on
two to three liters nasal cannula goal.

Cardiac patient with a history of CHF, as well as ejection
fraction found to be 15% to 20% with dilated left atrium and
right atrium, LV, and severe left ventricular global
hypokinesis with moderately dilated right ventricle.  The
patient was continued on the Lasix, as well as started on
Captopril and Aldactone for treatment of her CHF.  The
patient has history of atrial fibrillation.  She was started
on Coumadin at a regular dose of 2.5 mg q.d. to maintain the
INR between two to three.

The patient has transient pneumonitis while in the hospital
which resolved most likely secondary to hepatic congestion
secondary to CHF.  The patient was found to have negative
hepatic serology studies as well as right upper quadrant
ultrasound fatty liver with no ductal dilatation or
gallbladder distention or evidence of cholecystitis or
cholelithiasis.

CODE STATUS:  The patient was made DNR/DNI after multiple
discussions with her family, as well as proxyholder.

GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient underwent a sleep and swallow
study and modified barium study on hospital day #8, which
revealed that the patient had difficulty swallowing pills,
but, otherwise, did not aspirate significantly.  She was
subsequently continued on a pureed solid with nectar-thick
liquids diet.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 2515**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 4517**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4521**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 31245**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2154-4-16**]  15:43
T:  [**2154-4-16**]  16:07
JOB#:  [**Job Number 100244**]
