Admission Date:  [**2126-12-3**]     Discharge Date:  [**2126-12-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2056-10-23**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CARDIAC ICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 75-year-old
female with a past medical history significant for aortic
valve replacement and mitral annuloplasty in [**2126-10-8**]
for severe aortic insufficiency and mitral regurgitation,
atrial fibrillation, status post pacemaker placement in [**2125**],
congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 50% and
Parkinson's disease who presented to the Emergency Department
from her residential living facility with worsening shortness
of breath of one month duration postoperatively.  The patient
had Emergency Room visit approximately one week prior to
admission with a chest x-ray demonstrating a left effusion
(no intervention).

The patient was reportedly in her usual state of health at
the nursing home until the morning of admission when she was
noted to complain of nausea with lightheadedness on standing
and subsequently developed acute shortness of breath.  The
patient denies fever, chills, chest pain, chest pressure,
cough, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, as well as increasing
lower extremity swelling.

At the nursing home, the patient's oxygen saturation was
found to be 84% on room air (baseline 94-99% on room air).
Patient was sent to [**Hospital3 4527**] Emergency Department
where on a 95% nonrebreather, patient was found to have
arterial blood gas of 7.02/64/205.  Patient was placed on
CPAP with a subsequent arterial blood gas of 7.30/27/445.
Patient was given Lasix 80 mg intravenously and broad
spectrum antibiotics for presumed pneumonia.  Patient was
subsequently electively intubated for worsening respiratory
distress.  Electrocardiogram at the time demonstrated a paced
ventricular rhythm.  The patient was transferred to the [**Hospital6 1760**] for further evaluation and
management.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was intubated and
sedated with a chest x-ray demonstrated a large left pleural
effusion.  Initial arterial blood gas 7.39/40/218 on FIO2 of
40%/assist control at the rate of 14, tidal volume 500 with
PEEP of 5.  Patient was given one gram of vancomycin in the
Emergency Department and admitted to the Cardiac Intensive
Care Unit.

An emergent transthoracic echocardiogram was done in the
Cardiac Intensive Care Unit.  The exam was somewhat limited
by anatomy, however, no obvious aortic insufficiency or
mitral regurgitation, as well as vegetations were noted.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement and mitral
annuloplasty in [**2126-10-8**].
2.  Atrial fibrillation, status post a ventricular pacemaker.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 51%
and diastolic dysfunction.
5.  Parkinson's disease.
6.  Osteoporosis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Sinemet 500 mg/200 mg t.i.d. and 25 mg/100 mg t.i.d.
2.  Mirapex 0.25 mg t.i.d.
3.  Zestril 10 mg po q.d.
4.  Lasix 40 mg po q.d.
5.  Paxil 10 mg po q.d.
6.  Coumadin 2.5 mg and 5 mg q.o.d.
7.  Zantac 150 mg po b.i.d.
8.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq po q.d.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin and Norvasc.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives at [**Location (un) **].  Is a prior
tobacco user with no current or prior alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 98.8.  Heart rate
70.  Respiratory rate 14.  Blood pressure 128/70.  Oxygen
saturation 100% intubated on 40% FIO2, assist control, rate
of 14, tidal volume 500, PEEP of 5.  In general, patient is
an intubated/sedated elderly female in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Normocephalic,
atraumatic, constricted pupils, oropharynx clear with ET tube
and orogastric tube in place.  Neck:  8 cm of jugular venous
pressure with bilateral bruits radiating from the aortic
valve.  Cardiovascular exam:  Regular rate with 2/6 systolic
ejection murmur at the right upper sternal border, radiating
to the carotids.  Pulmonary exam:  Rales at the right base
with decreased breath sounds at the left base anteriorly.
Abdominal exam:  Soft, hypoactive bowel sounds, nontender,
nondistended, no masses appreciated.  Extremities:  No edema
appreciated, warm and well-perfused, faint posterior tibial
pulses bilaterally, no splinter hemorrhages, no [**Last Name (un) 1003**]
lesions, good femoral pulses with no bruits.  Neurological
exam:  Sedated, no ankle clonus with downgoing toes
bilaterally.

LABORATORIES AND STUDIES ON ADMISSION:  CBC with a white
blood cell count of 7.7, hematocrit 32.2, and platelet count
of 248,000.  Chem-7 with a sodium of 138, potassium 4.2,
chloride 103, bicarbonate 22, BUN 43, creatinine 1.5, and
glucose 120.  LFTs with an ALT of 33, AST 126, alkaline
phosphatase 122, total bilirubin 1.9, amylase 90, lipase 22
and albumin of 3.3.  Chest x-ray demonstrated a large left
effusion, increased in size since [**2126-10-8**], left lower
lobe opacification, mild interstitial edema, right lower lobe
opacity consistent with atelectasis versus pneumonia.
Electrocardiogram:  Ventricular paced at 70.  Head CT at the
outside hospital reportedly negative.  Urinalysis at the
outside hospital negative nitrate, negative leukocyte
esterase.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient ruled out for myocardial
infarction with three sets of cardiac enzymes.  An
echocardiogram demonstrated a well-perfused left ventricular
systolic function with an ejection fraction of 55%, dilated
right ventricle, 1+ mitral regurgitation, small pericardial
effusion, bioprosthetic aortic valve with 3+ tricuspid
regurgitation.  On hospital day number two, a left chest tube
was placed for drainage of a large left pleural effusion
demonstrated on chest x-ray.  250 cc of straw-colored fluid
was drained without complication.  The patient successfully
extubated on hospital day number two and subsequently
underwent a chest CT which demonstrated small ascites, right
pleural effusion, small pericardial effusion and left lower
lobe opacity with air bronchograms.  The patient's sputum
Gram Stain demonstrated gram positive cocci in pairs and
clusters, however, culture was without growth.  Patient was
started on broad spectrum antibiotics for presumed community
acquired/aspiration pneumonia.  The patient remained
clinically stable and was transferred to the Medicine Floor
for further management on hospital day number five.

However, on the Medicine Floor, the patient was noted to have
decreased urine output and poor oral intake.  After 70 ml of
half normal saline, the patient became acutely short of
breath with tachypnea, decreased oxygen saturation, and rales
half way up bilaterally on lung exam.  An arterial blood gas
on 100% nonrebreather demonstrated relative hypoxemia and
hypercarbia.  The patient received Lasix and nebulizers and
was transferred to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit for fluid
and airway management.  A femoral Swan-Ganz catheter was
placed which demonstrated elevated pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure of 18 and a pulmonary artery diastolic pressure of
20.  The patient underwent a transthoracic echocardiogram
without evidence of tamponade physiology.

The patient was maintained on supplemental oxygen, diuretics,
and broad spectrum antibiotics for presumed flash pulmonary
edema with underlying pneumonia.  A Pulmonary Consult was
obtained for further recommendations.  Pulmonary recommended
continued diuresis and antibiotic therapy, however, deferred
bronchoscopy for a later date.  Given patient's history of
Parkinson's disease and concern for aspiration with acute
desaturations, a bedside swish and swallow evaluation was
obtained.  Based on bedside evaluation, it was recommended
that patient maintain nothing by mouth with further video
assisted swallow study, however, prior to the completion of a
swish and swallow study, the patient developed a PEA cardiac
arrest.  Patient received epinephrine, atropine, bicarbonate
with CPR and was subsequently intubated on Levophed for blood
pressure support.  The patient ruled out for a myocardial
infarction with three sets of cardiac enzymes.  The patient
intermittently spiked fevers to 103 and antibiotic coverage
was broadened.  A subsequent head CT was performed wit