Admission Date:  [**2182-10-23**]     Discharge Date: [**2182-11-10**]


Service:  Medicine, [**Hospital1 139**] Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 85-year-old
female who was originally admitted to the Vascular Service
for arteriography.

She was noted to be anemic with a hematocrit of 24 and to
have an evaluated creatinine level of 2.3.  She was
transfused with 2 units of packed red blood cells and began
to experience shortness of breath.  An electrocardiogram at
that time revealed ST depressions in V5 through V6, and a
chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure.  The patient was
transferred to the Medicine Service on [**2182-10-24**].

The patient did not complain of chest pain, nausea, or
vomiting.  During a previous myocardial infarction, the
patient did experience chest pressure in addition to her
shortness of breath.  At that time, a cardiac catheterization
in [**2182-4-24**] revealed significant 3-vessel disease.  The
patient declined cardiac catheterization for stenting at that
time.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
2.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction in [**2182-3-25**].
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post right
ileofemoral bypass graft in [**2182-6-24**].
5.  Status post right great toe amputation in [**2182-6-24**].
6.  Osteoarthritis.
7.  Status post cholecystectomy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  Colace 100 mg p.o. q.h.s.
4.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
5.  Sodium bicarbonate 1300 mg p.o. t.i.d.
6.  Levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.d.
7.  Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.
8.  Zantac 150 mg p.o. q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On physical
examination, the patient was afebrile with a heart rate in
the 80s, blood pressure was 120s/60s, respiratory rate was
20, oxygen saturation was 100% on a 100% nonrebreather.  In
general, the patient was an obese female who was
uncomfortable and tachypneic.  Head and neck examination
revealed no icterus.  Mucous membranes were moist.  Pupils
were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Neck showed an
elevated jugular venous pulse of 10 cm.  Pulmonary
examination revealed crackles up to two-thirds bilaterally.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm
with no murmurs, and distant heart sounds.  Abdominal
examination revealed positive bowel sounds, and no tenderness
or distention.  Extremities had 2+ edema bilaterally.  The
right great toe with an area of eschar and granulation
tissue, and was clean and dressed.  The left heel showed a
stage I pressure ulcer.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratory
examination was significant for an initial creatine kinase of
468, a MB fraction of 94, and a troponin I level of greater
than 50.  Her Chemistry-7 panel was significant for a blood
urea nitrogen of 20 and a creatinine of 2.3.  Following
transfusion, the patient's hematocrit increased to 33.7 after
2 units of packed red blood cells.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus
rhythm at 80 beats per minute, normal axis, first-degree
heart block, no Q waves, and ST depressions in V4 through V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  The patient was initially treated
with aspirin, a heparin drip, and Integrilin.  The heparin
drip and Integrilin were maintained for 72 hours.  The
patient was treated with a nitroglycerin drip which was
discontinued secondary to hypotension on [**2182-10-27**].
She was maintained on telemetry, and her cardiac enzymes were
cycled.  Her creatine kinase peaked on [**10-24**] at a level
of 468.  Her CK/MB peaked at 94.  Troponin levels were
greater than 50.

Repeat chest x-rays showed persistent and slightly worsening
congestive heart failure for several days.  The patient was
aggressively diuresed with Lasix and was initially resistant.
Metolazone was added to her diuretic regimen, and the patient
responded.  Her congestive heart failure gradually improved
over the course of one week.

An arterial blood gas on [**2182-10-25**] showed a pH of
7.31, PCO2 of 51, PO2 of 219, on a 100% nonrebreather mask.
Her oxygen requirement was slowly weaned down to 3 liters by
nasal cannula.

A transthoracic echocardiogram on [**2182-10-25**] revealed
mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy, mildly dilated
left atrium, and severely depressed left ventricular systolic
function.  The ejection fraction was estimated at 25%.  There
was severe hypokinesis to akinesis of the lower two thirds of
the left ventricle with relative sparing of the base of
posterolateral wall.  Moderate mitral regurgitation was
noted.

On [**2182-10-26**], the patient experienced atrial
fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response.  She was rate
controlled with diltiazem and was somewhat hypotensive prior
to rate control.  At this time, she was started on metoprolol
at 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.   Due to the new onset paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation, the patient was anticoagulated with heparin.
She was being slowly converted to Coumadin at the time of
this dictation.  A brief trial of dopamine was attempted for
increased blood pressures; however, the patient had rapid
ventricular rates and did not tolerate this.

She was started on amiodarone for chemical conversion of her
atrial fibrillation, and spontaneously converted to a sinus
rhythm on [**2182-11-10**].  At this time, she became
bradycardic with rates in the 50s to upper 40s and had
decreased blood pressures to the 90s.  New electrocardiogram
changes of T wave inversions in the precordial leads were
noted.  At this time, the patient was still being medicated
with aspirin and heparin, but her beta blocker was withheld
secondary to low heart rates and blood pressures.  Cardiac
enzymes were cycled again and were pending at the time of
this dictation.

2.  RENAL SYSTEM:  The patient's creatinine continued to
climb following her non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.  It
peaked at 5.8, then receded to a level of 3.7 at the time of
this dictation.  She was initially resistant to diuresis with
Lasix; however, she soon began to respond to intravenous
Lasix with metolazone given b.i.d.

After one week, the patient continued to diuresis without the
need for diuretics and maintained a urine output of 1000 cc
per day.

3.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient was treated prior to
hospitalization with Bactrim, followed by levofloxacin and
Flagyl for her right toe amputation which failed to heal.

In the hospital, the Flagyl was converted to clindamycin, and
the patient was maintained on levofloxacin throughout.
Superficial wound swabs from the right toe showed mixed flora
with gram-positive rods, gram-negative rods, and
gram-positive cocci.  The patient was maintained on
clindamycin and levofloxacin throughout her hospitalization
up until the time of this dictation.

On her initial transfer to the Medicine Service, a chest
x-ray showed a new opacification in the right and left upper
lobes which were consistent with aspiration or atypical
pulmonary edema.  These infiltrates improved while the
patient was maintained on her antibiotic regimen.  A urine
culture on [**10-28**] revealed enterococcus species, and the
patient was treated with a 7-day course of ampicillin.

Right foot films showed irregular and indistinct bony margins
of the metatarsal, suspicious for osteomyelitis.  Given the
patient's cardiac status, revascularization was determined to
be a poor option as was deep bone biopsy.  The patient will
likely require a 6-week course of intravenous antibiotics and
may not be able to heal her wound fully.

4.  ENDOCRINE SYSTEM:  The patient was noted to have a low
thyroid-stimulating hormone level of 0.06.  Further studies
revealed a normal T4 level of 8.3, and a normal free T4 level
of 1.2.  Her T3 level was less than 30, and her free T3 level
was 182.  Both of these T3 levels were low.

A radioactive iodine uptake test and scan showed decreased
uptake by the thyroid.  An Endocrine consultation believed
that these results were consistent with euthyroid sick
syndrome as well as nonthyroidal illness.  They recommended
checking a tota