Admission Date:  [**2192-7-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2192-8-12**]


Service:  CCU

THIS REPORT WILL BE FOLLOWED BY AN ADDENDUM.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 79 year old
Spanish speaking male with a history o coronary artery
disease, ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of
25%, status post cardiac catheterization in [**12-2**] at the
outside hospital, which showed proximal left anterior
descending stenosis of 60 to 70%, diagonal 1 80 to 90%;
intervention was discussed at that time but elected for
medical management; atrial fibrillation status post
cardioversion and on amiodarone; diabetes mellitus type 2;
chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 3.0
to 4.0, status post left arteriovenous fistula placement on
[**2192-7-25**], hypertension and hypercholesterolemia.  He was
transferred from the outside hospital for management of
congestive heart failure and worsening renal function.  The
patient was admitted to [**Hospital6 3872**] Coronary
Care Unit on [**2192-7-24**], after failing intravenous diuretic
treatments on the regular medical floor.

The patient had a TTE showing ejection fraction of 25 to 30%
with mild left ventricular hypertrophy and global
hypokinesis, mild mitral regurgitation, mild to moderate
aortic insufficiency, moderate tricuspid regurgitation, PAP
of 50 to 55%.  The patient there was started on intravenous
Nesiritide with good urinary output initially, however, his
creatinine was rising with decreasing urinary output
progressively.  His BUN and creatinine on admission to the
outside hospital was 48 and 3.7 respectively and they were
increased to 71 and 5.4 respectively.

The patient underwent placement of an arteriovenous fistula
on [**7-25**].  His Coreg was rapidly titrated from initial dose
of 3.1 to 5.0 twice a day to 18.75 twice a day.  The day of
admission to [**Hospital1 69**], still in
the outside hospital, the patient was found to have
"junctional bradycardia" with blood pressures systolic of 70,
Coreg and amiodarone were held.  His BUN and creatinine at
that time were 85 and 6.2 respectively.  CK times two were
negative.  The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] at his son's request.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post cardiac
catheterization [**12-2**], proximal left anterior descending 60
to 70%, diagonal 1 80 to 90%, no intervention elected for
medical management.
2.  Atrial fibrillation:  Status post cardioversion currently
on amiodarone.
3.  Diabetes mellitus.
4.  Chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine 3.0
to 4.0.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Hypercholesterolemia.
7.  Hypothyroidism.
8.  History of temporal arteritis with negative biopsy on
[**7-25**], but continuing Prednisone treatment.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:
1.  Levoxyl 100 mg p.o. q. day.
2.  Prednisone 20 mg p.o. q. day.
3.  Protonix.
4.  Meclozine.
5.  Aspirin.
6.  Iron.
7.  PhosLo.
8.  Glucotrol.
9.  Epogen.
10. Hydralazine.
11. Isordil.
12. Zocor.

Of note, Coreg, amiodarone, Natrecor and Lasix were held.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

SUMMARY OF [**Hospital **] HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  The patient's junctional wide
complex bradycardia was felt to be secondary to electrolyte
derangement, specifically acidosis and hyperkalemia as well
as arteriovenous nodal blockade with a combination of
amiodarone and Coreg.

Amiodarone and Coreg were held.  The patient's hyperkalemia
was treated medically with calcium gluconate, insulin and D50
as well as Kayexalate.  The patient's serial cardiac enzymes
were negative.  The patient remained hemodynamically stable.
In light of worsening renal function, the patient was fluid
overloaded and Natrecor and intravenous Lasix were started
with only small improvement in urinary output.

The patient's bradycardia resolved as electrolyte
derangements were corrected.  The patient responded to
Natrecor and intravenous Lasix only transiently with
creatinine of 6.5.  At this time, gentle fluid bolus was
tried with improvement of urinary output and subsequent
improvement in the patient's creatinine and renal function.

The patient was closely followed by the Renal Service.  It
was discussed with the patient and his family that a lot of
patient's dysrhythmias were secondary to metabolic
derangements being derived from his progressive renal
failure, however, the patient was not in favor of initiation
hemodialysis prior to maturation of his arteriovenous
fistula.  The consequences and risks were explained to the
patient and family and they were understanding of pros and
cons of initiating hemodialysis at that time.

After a few days improvement of urinary output, the patient's
renal function starting worsening again with creatinine
increasing to the peak of 7.7.  On [**2192-8-1**], it was thought
that a pericardial rub was heard on a physical examination,
prompting initiation of urgent hemodialysis, however, the
patient and his family repeatedly refused such intervention.
The patient has remained largely asymptomatic in bed, has
been mentating fine.  The patient has been followed by the
Renal Service who likewise explained the consequences of not
initiating hemodialysis at this time.

It was also explained to them that the patient's renal
disease is likely irreversible as evident by the patient's
renal ultrasound which was done on admission which showed
bilateral renal atrophy, no hydronephrosis and no kidney
stones, which would go against the presence of reversible
component.  The patient has remained doing well with Natrecor
and Lasix being weaned off and was started on hydralazine and
Nitroglycerin.  ACE inhibitors were avoided in light of
worsening renal function.

On [**8-2**], the patient went into atrial fibrillation with
aberrant conduction.  Low dose beta blocker as well as low
dose amiodarone were started and the patient was closely
observed.  The following day the patient converted back into
sinus rhythm and has remained asymptomatic with creatinine
being stable at 6.3 to 6.5.  The patient was transferred to
the general nursing floor and has done very well there for
the next two days.

Two days later the patient developed junctional bradycardia
with a rate of 40, hypotension with systolic blood pressures
at low 60s.  The patient was given a fluid bolus, urgently
transferred back to the Intensive Care Unit.  The patient was
found to have a creatinine of 7.7, potassium of 5.2.  The
patient's hyperkalemia was corrected.  The patient was given
atropine and was started on Dopamine which we were able to
wean off in the next few hours.  The patient was nauseated
and complained of abdominal pain.

At this point, it was explained to the patient and his family
that hemodialysis was urgent as patient was exhibiting signs
of uremia.  The patient subsequently underwent right femoral
catheter placement for temporary hemodialysis and has
undergone three consecutive hemodialysis treatments which
greatly improved his physical condition.

Amiodarone and beta blocker were on hold since the second
episode of junctional bradycardia.  The patient remained in
sinus rhythm.  Subsequently, the patient was transferred back
to the general nursing floor and had a few runs of narrow
complex tachycardia.  The patient has remained asymptomatic
since then with heart rate was in the 120s and 130s.  At the
same time, the patient also had a run of monomorphic
ventricular tachycardia, 21 beats, asymptomatic.

Taking into account the above events, it was decided that the
patient was at high risk for sudden cardiac death and he
underwent an ICD placement and permanent pacemaker placement
implantation on [**2192-8-9**].  The patient's permanent
pacemaker was set to capture at the rate of 60 and the
patient's ICD was set to delivery electrical shock in the
ventricular tachycardia range.  The patient had done very
well post procedure and was started on amiodarone 400 q. day.
His Coumadin was restarted the day following the procedure.

Anti-coagulation was not started immediately after the
procedure since the procedure was complicated by significant
bleed and the patient developed a hematoma at the site of the
surgical incision wh