Admission Date:  [**2123-1-6**]       Discharge Date: [**2123-1-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2074-4-27**]       Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Respiratory failure secondary to pneumonia status post PEA
arrest.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 48-year-old lady who presents initially from
[**Hospital 1474**] Hospital to the Intensive Care Unit at [**Hospital1 346**] for respiratory failure secondary to
community acquired pneumonia status post intubation and
dopamine drip.  At the outside hospital, patient was worked
up for likely community acquired pneumonia as well as
possible non-Q wave myocardial infarction as her initial
troponin was around 21.  Patient had an echocardiogram to
workup the troponin and showed no evidence of any wall motion
abnormality with a normal ejection fraction of greater than
55%.

At the outside hospital, the patient was treated for
congestive heart failure, pneumonia, a Swan Ganz catheter was
placed which showed a CBT of 18, pulmonary artery pressure of
55/27, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 15, a cardiac
index of 3.1 and a SVR of 991.  The patient was started on
Vancomycin, levo and Flagyl for possible sepsis.

At the outside hospital, patient subsequently had a PEA
arrest during an attempt to place a left subclavian line
attempt.  According to the records from the outside hospital,
the left subclavian line attempt was complicated a tension
pneumothorax which subsequently lead to the PEA arrest.  His
PEA arrest was converted to ventricular tachycardia and the
patient was shocked, and cardioverted, and was resuscitated.

The patient was subsequently transferred to the [**Hospital1 346**] Intensive Care Unit for further
workup.  In the Intensive Care Unit, the patient was
continued on her Vancomycin, levofloxacin, Flagyl for her
sepsis treatment.  Patient finished her 14-day course of
Vancomycin and Flagyl.  A Legionella antigen was sent and was
positive for Legionella.  As a result, the patient was
treated with a full 21 days of levofloxacin while at the [**Hospital1 1444**] for presumed Legionella
pneumonia.

Patient was felt to have sustained anoxic brain injury
secondary to the cardiac arrest at the outside hospital.
A Neurology consult was obtained.  Electroencephalograms were
performed and were negative for any seizure focus x2.
However, it was thought that the patient exhibited signs of
possible seizures with rhythmic movements of her eyes and
head with some question of lower extremity tremors.
Therefore, according to the Neurology team, it was felt that
it would be prudent to keep this patient on antiseizure
medications as she begins to recover from her anoxic brain
injury as this could be a source for further decline.

The patient also had a MRI of her brain which did not show
any evidence of large stroke or ischemic damage, but I could
not rule out any small microvascular damage.  The patient's
Intensive Care Unit course was also complicated by
hyperglycemia secondary likely to her infection.  The patient
was started on NPH with good control of her blood sugars.
The patient also had increased amylase and lipase.  An
abdominal CT scan was obtained and ultrasound was obtained,
and both were negative for any evidence of pancreatitis or
hepatitis.  The elevated amylase and lipase were felt to be
secondary to flushing and has since begun trending down or
hovering and to be 100s, still slightly elevated.

Of note, the patient's neurologic status was felt to be
improving on a day to day basis consistent with anoxic brain
injury.  The patient was also positive for xanthomas
maltophiles.  Was placed on contact precautions given that it
was only sensitive to Bactrim.

The patient was successfully extubated on [**1-20**] and
was felt to be stable and transferred to the medical floor.
....................

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hepatitis C.
2. Hypertension.
3. Hypothyroidism.
4. Osteoporosis.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1. Ambien.
2. Tiazac.
3. Prozac.
4. Synthroid.

ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient has no known alcohol use or IV drug use.  The
patient lives at home with her husband, who was recently in a
car accident and is currently wheelchair bound and two
daughters are very close to home.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Temperature 98.9, blood pressure 132/74, pulse 80-100,
respirations 15-25, and O2 saturation is 97-100% on FIO2 of
0.5.  In general the patient is extubated, awake, and
localizes to voice.  Neck is without any evidence of jugular
venous distention, no lymphadenopathy.  Chest is significant
for having no evidence of wheezes or crackles, but coarse
breath sounds throughout.  Heart is regular, rate, and rhythm
without murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Abdomen is soft,
nontender, nondistended, decreased bowel sounds.  Extremities
without any clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Neurologic
examination initially the patient localized to voice, but was
nonvocal and nonpurposeful spontaneous to the lower
extremities.  No movement to the upper extremity.  Patient
had withdraw pain with the left lower extremity, but no
withdraw pain in the upper extremity or right lower
extremity.

LABORATORIES ON TRANSFER:
White count 6.3, hematocrit 28.8, platelets 263,000.  Sodium
143, potassium 3.6, chloride 107, bicarb 25, BUN 11,
creatinine 0.5, glucose 131.  PT 13.1, INR 1.2, PTT 24.1, AST
51, ALT 43, alkaline phosphatase 113, T bilirubin 0.4.
Dilantin 13.1, amylase 264, lipase 241.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
This is a 48-year-old lady status post intubation and
Intensive Care Unit admission for respiratory failure
secondary to pneumonia status post PEA arrest at the outside
hospital secondary to tension pneumothorax during a left
subclavian line procedure status post subsequent anoxic brain
injury who was subsequently extubated on [**1-20**] and
now transferred to the floor for further management of her
improving pneumonia and monitoring of her neurological
status.

1. Pulmonary:  The patient was extubated on [**1-20**] as
stated in the history of present illness.  Patient was
continued on face mask and oxygen had slowly been weaned
down, and the patient will attempt to be switched over to
nasal cannula oxygen, but currently is still requiring 35%
face mask at the time of this dictation.  The patient was
stable and no episodes of desaturation while on the floor,
and was felt to be a low risk for future intubations on this
hospital stay.  Patient was continued with aggressive chest
PT and suctioning while on the floor and did well with no
evidence of desaturations as stated above.

2. Infectious disease:  Patient is status post sepsis treated
with Vancomycin and Flagyl for [**6-20**] day course.  Patient was
also found to be Legionella antigen positive.  Patient
was kept on contact precautions and
treated with a full 21 days of levofloxacin.  The patient is
currently on day #20 of 21 at the time of this dictation, and
will likely finish a course of 21 days.  The patient had a
couple episodes of spiking fevers greater than 102.0 degrees.
The patient's white count had no obvious changes.  Patient
was worked up for this fever with subsequent cultures,
urinalysis, chest x-ray.

Patient's urinalysis was negative.  Cultures were negative to
date and the chest x-ray showed an improving infiltrate.

On [**1-26**], patient went for an abdominal CT scan and
sinus CT scan to rule out other sources of infection.  There
is no evidence of pancreatitis despite her elevated lipase
and amylase, no evidence of any abscess or any abdominal
pathology that might be relating to the fevers.  The
patient's sinus CT scan is pending at the time of this
dictation.  Of note on this on this abdominal CT scan, they
were able to get a pretty good visualization of the lungs and
it was felt that her Legionella pneumonia was pretty much
resolved.  Patient will likely not to need any further
antibiotics after finishing her course of levofloxacin if
there is no obvious source.  It is possible that the
patient's fevers were secondary to possibly her initiation of
Dilantin therapy.

3. Fluids, electrolytes, and nutrition:  The patient had a
nasogastric tube receiving feeds when transferred to the
floor.  The patient was converted from 