Admission Date: [**2135-8-10**]        Discharge Date: [**2135-9-21**]

Date of Birth:  [**2067-5-29**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Acute renal failure.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 68 year-old gentleman male
with chronic nonhealing right first toe ulceration which has
been treated conservatively with antibiotics who was referred
to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] for evaluation who felt that the patient had
underlying arterial insufficiency and recommended an
arteriogram. Patient was to undergo arteriogram on the day of
admission but was found to have abnormal laboratories and was
evaluated in the emergency room and admitted to the medical
service for continued care. The patient has completed oral
antibiotics within the last week for his great toe .He has
noted diminished appetite over the last month and a 15 pound
weight loss over the last month. He has also noticed
decreased urination over the last several days with slight
burning with urination. Although this is chronic they are
related to radiation therapy. He denies any hematuria.
Patient was evaluated in the emergency room at 10:30 P.M. on
[**2135-8-10**]. The patient underwent renal ultrasound which
was negative for hydronephrosis, masses or stones. Chest x-
ray was unremarkable. The abdominal aorta measured 4.7 cm.
The white count was 10.3, hematocrit 35.8, BUN 75, creatinine
8.7 with a potassium of 3.9. Urinalysis is small amount of
blood with 508 mg of protein, trace of glucose, negative for
nitrate and leukocyte. The patient was then admitted to the
hospital for evaluation of his acute renal failure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  No known drug allergies. Past
illnesses include hypertension, gout and history of duodenal
ulcer with bleed in [**2108**], history of prostatic carcinoma,
status post radiation therapy, history of abdominal aortic
aneurysm, status post repair in [**2131**], history of chronic
atrial fibrillation. History of carotid disease, status post
left CEA. History of cataracts and a chronic right foot
ulceration of the first toe.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Include Lipitor, Tylenol,
Ditropan, Digoxin, Hyzaar, Coumadin, allopurinol and
nifedipine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He admits to smoking 1-1/2 packs per day. He
quit 3 years ago. He is a retired self employed gentleman. He
admits to moderate alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  In the emergency room vital signs:
99.5, 76, blood pressure 165/75, oxygen saturation 96% on
room air. General appearance: He is a well appearing male in
no acute distress. Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat
examination was unremarkable. There is no lymphadenopathy.
The lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. The heart
has a regular rate and rhythm with a III/VI holosystolic
murmur at the apex. Abdominal examination is unremarkable.
There is no costovertebral tenderness. Pulse examination
shows palpable pedal pulses bilaterally, left being greater
than right. The right first toe is discolored a purple color,
cool with tenderness to palpation but no induration.
Neurological examination was unremarkable.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was initially evaluated in the
emergency room and admitted to the medial service for
continued care. Patient was followed by the renal service and
he underwent on [**2135-8-18**] a renal biopsy which was
complicated by retroperitoneal bleed requiring coil
embolization and blood transfusion. The renal biopsy result
showed renal failure changes secondary to atheroembolic
disease. The patient was begun on hemodialysis and
stabilized. On [**2135-8-23**] he underwent diagnostic
arteriogram by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]. Patient was placed on total
parenteral nutrition secondary to a partial bowel
obstruction. The patient was not tolerating p.o. He was
continued on his total parenteral nutrition. He underwent on
[**2135-8-24**] a tunnel catheter placement for hemodialysis
access. He tolerated the procedure well. Nasogastric tube was
removed on [**2135-9-3**]. Patient was doing well. He was
tolerating clear liquids. TPN was continued and his diet was
advanced as tolerated. A PTH was obtained on [**2135-9-2**]
which was 249. The patient was begun on Zemplar 2 mg IV at
dialysis. Patient was anticipated to undergo AV fistula by
the transplant service on [**2135-9-8**]. This was cancelled
secondary to temperature of 101.4. Blood, urine and chest x-
ray were obtained. His white count at the time of the
temperature spike was 7.1. The urine culture was less than
10,000 organisms. The blood cultures were no growth and his
chest x-ray was unremarkable for infiltrate or consolidation.
The patient on [**2135-9-10**] had an episode during dialysis
of rapid atrial fibrillation with a ventricular rate in the
130s to 140s which responded to IV Lopressor. Plain films
were done to evaluate for acute sinusitis. These were
negative. Source for the fever could not be found and on
[**2135-9-13**] a CT of the torso was obtained which showed
bilateral lower lobe pneumonia. Patient was placed on broad
spectrum antibiotics. A sputum culture was request but one
could not be obtained. The patient was continued on his
antibiotics. He continued to run fevers between 101.2 to
100.7. The patient from a clinical standpoint continued to do
well and was never toxic with his fever and his white count
never numbered greater than 8.4. He proceeded to undergo a
right below knee popliteal to dorsalis pedis bypass with
greater saphenous vein on [**2135-9-15**]. He was transferred
to the post anesthesia care unit in stable condition. He
remained in atrial fibrillation, rate controlled and he had a
palpable graft pulse. He continued to do well in the post
anesthesia care unit and was transferred to the vascular
Intensive Care Unit for continued monitoring and care. On
postoperative day 1 there were no overnight events. He
continued to run a low grade temperature of 100.4. He was
continued on his beta blockade and his diet was advanced as
tolerated. Renal continued to follow the patient. He was
dialyzed three days per week, Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
His antibiotics were discontinued on [**2135-9-16**].
Subcutaneous heparin was begun for deep venous thrombosis
prophylaxis. On [**2135-9-19**] the transplant service
proceeded with a left brachiocephalic AV fistula and he had a
palpable thrill at the end of the procedure. The remaining
hospital course was unremarkable. Patient was seen by
physical therapy and felt safe to be discharged home. Patient
was discharged to home on [**2135-9-21**].

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  Patient will need to follow up with
the home safety evaluation once discharged. He is to follow
up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] in two weeks time for skin clip remove.
Should arrange for follow up with transplant service
regarding his AV fistula. The patient has arrangements for
outpatient dialysis at Frenius Dialysis Center in
[**Location (un) 5028**]. These will be Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The
first session will be with them on [**9-23**]. Patient's
last hemodialysis was [**2135-9-21**].

LABORATORIES AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE:  White count was 11.2,
hematocrit 27.9, platelets 384. Sodium 132, potassium 3.9,
chloride 94, bicarb 25, BUN 45, creatinine 5.7 with a glucose
of 108. Calcium 8.4, phos 3.4, magnesium 2.1.

The patient received at dialysis 6,000 units of Epogen, 3 mcg
of Zemplar.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Acetaminophen 325 mg tablets 2 q 4 to
6 hours p.r.n. for pain, Fluticasone/salmeterol 100/50 mcg
b.i.d., trazodone 50 mg at h.s., senna tablets 8.6 mg 2 p.o.
b.i.d. p.r.n., Colace 100 mg b.i.d., diltiazem 30 mg q.i.d.,
Lopressor 150 mg tablets t.i.d., alrestatin 20 mg q.d., Sarna
lotion p.r.n., Percocet 5/325 tablets 1 to 2 q 4 to 6 hours
p.r.n. for pain.

ACTIVITY:  As tolerated. He should not drive until seen in
follow up by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1391**] and while he is on narcotics.

Wounds were clean and dry. The AV fistula with a palpable
thrill. He should call us if he develops a fever greater than
101.5, any of his wounds become red, swollen or drain or
painful.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Acute renal failure secondary to
atherosclerotic embolization, dialysis dependent.
H