Admission Date:  [**2167-4-18**]       Discharge Date:  [**2167-5-8**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 56-year-old
female, status post laparoscopic cholecystectomy and
Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy and excision of a choledochal
cyst on [**2167-4-29**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  She has a past medical history
significant for insulin-dependent diabetes, pancreatitis,
gastroesophageal reflux disease, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, depression, anxiety, alcohol abuse, a
right hip fracture (status post repair with a DHS), and
tobacco abuse.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Meter-dosed inhaler (for asthma),
insulin, Protonix, Compazine, and Percocet.

ALLERGIES:

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted as part
of a workup with diabetes with acidosis, acute renal failure,
and cholecystitis.  The patient is also a significantly
debilitated woman who looked as if she was in poor status of
caring for herself and the appearance of somebody who is
failing to thrive in her cachexia and just overall general
appearance and care.

She presented to the hospital and was admitted for what
appeared to be a diabetes exacerbation with acidosis, and
acute renal failure, and cholecystitis, and dehydration.  She
was evaluated for an endoscopic retrograde
cholangiopancreatography.  She was given ceftriaxone and
Flagyl.  Cultures were performed.

Surgery was consulted for the right-sided abdominal pain.  It
was decided (according to Surgery) that the patient was
presenting with cholecystitis, choledocholithiasis,
dehydration, poor compliance with her diabetes, but no
evidence of cholangitis on initial presentation.   It was
decided by Neurology for analgesia as needed.  Pulmonary, for
albuterol as needed and control her asthma.  An
electrocardiogram was performed just prior to the workup.
The ERCP fellow was contact[**Name (NI) **].  Antibiotics were initiated
with levofloxacin and Flagyl.  For her history of
pancreatitis, her liver function tests and enzymes will be
followed.  Renal failure with a creatinine of 4; we wanted to
rehydrate her with intravenous fluids.  Foley with q.2h.
urine output.  Levofloxacin and Flagyl were initiated for
Infectious Disease coverage.  For tubes, lines, and drains a
Foley was placed.  The patient had a peripherally inserted
central catheter line to be placed, and normal saline was run
at 150 cc an hour.  The patient was placed on telemetry.

On hospital day two, the patient was further resuscitated.
The patient was admitted to the floor and was followed for a
period of time, at which time the patient imaged.  After
serial imaging and acute resuscitation from her acute renal
failure and diabetes exacerbation the patient was deemed to
have a choledochal cyst.  The patient was attempted to
maximally optimized for surgery.

On [**4-29**], the patient underwent a hepaticojejunostomy and
excision of a choledochal cyst.  Please see the operative
dictation.

In the postoperative period, the patient did well initially.
She was a little bit acidotic as far as post procedure and
did okay until she acutely desaturated on the floor and had
mental status changes.  Gases were checked.  At this point,
the patient was profoundly acidotic and was failing to
thrive.  At this juncture, after the gas, it was deemed that
the patient needed Intensive Care Unit level care.  She was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for respiratory
failure and was intubated.

The patient had a complicated medical course but eventually
was extubated on [**5-4**] after the metabolic acidosis was
resolving.  A chest x-ray was revealing a left lower lobe
pneumonia, and the patient was improving from a pulmonary
perspective with aggressive pulmonary toilet.  The patient
was watched very carefully from a pulmonary perspective as if
she had little pulmonary reserve.  With activity, the patient
was desaturating to the 88% range.

In terms of the abdominal incision, the staples were intact.
There were no signs of infection.  However, on [**5-6**], the
patient appeared to have a small amount of serosanguineous
drainage at the inferior portion of the wound.  The staples
were removed.  The wound was packed for localized wound
cellulitis.  The patient was continued on Zosyn.

The patient was transferred out to the floor and seemed to do
well.  She had been on total parenteral nutrition for
nutrition.  On [**5-8**], it was deemed that the patient was
able to support her caloric needs.  She was continued on
aggressive pulmonary toilet, and the total parenteral
nutrition was no longer needed.

On [**5-8**], it was decided after the patient had resolving
respiratory issues that the patient would be able to be
discharged to a rehabilitation facility with two weeks of
intravenous antibiotics including vancomycin and Zosyn (a
2-week course to be completed for hospital-acquired
pneumonia).  In addition to this, the patient was to undergo
serial dressing changes in preparation for discharge to
rehabilitation.   The patient was to complete the 2-week
course of antibiotics for hospital-acquired pneumonia.   She
was to follow up in the office with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in two weeks'
time.   She was to continue dressing changes at the
rehabilitation facility for the lower abdominal wound
infection.  At that point in time, that would be expected to
granulate in.  The patient's diabetes, which had been under
much better control in the hospital setting because of
compliance issues, would continue.  Hopefully, as an
outpatient the patient will continue to manage her own
diabetes and not have the situation of poor compliance that
she has had in the past.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
 1.  Choledochal cyst; status post excision.
 2.  Cholecystitis; status post excision of choledochal and
gallbladder.
 3.  Asthma.
 4.  Hospital-acquired pneumonia (the patient to complete a
2-week course of treatment).
 5.  Diabetes mellitus.
 6.  Failure to thrive.
 7.  Hyperglycemia.
 8.  Hypokalemia.
 9.  Change in mental status.
10.  Metabolic acidosis secondary to acute renal failure
which prompted intubation.  The patient was subsequently
extubated.  In part, the respiratory failure may have been
contributed to by her left lower lobe hospital-acquired
pneumonia.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  The patient was discharged in stable
condition.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:   To a rehabilitation facility.





                         [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 8207**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 8208**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8209**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 740**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2167-5-8**]  07:40
T:  [**2167-5-8**]  07:53
JOB#:  [**Job Number 100259**]
