Admission Date:  [**2143-8-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2143-9-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2084-4-26**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 59-year-old
gentleman with uncorrected critical aortic insufficiency who
presented with syncope, systolic congestive heart failure,
and hypoxia.

The patient reported increasing shortness of breath with
chest discomfort, weakness, and daily nausea and vomiting
over the past month prior to admission.  During this period,
he had discontinued all of his cardiac medications.

Over the two days prior to admission, the patient noted
increasing lower extremity edema greater on the left than the
right.  On the day prior to admission, he was very short of
breath with positive orthopnea, diaphoresis, and tachycardia.
He subsequently presented to [**Hospital3 15174**] where
he was given 60 mg of intravenous Lasix, morphine, started on
a nitroglycerin drip, and aspirin.

He was then transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for further management and possible valve repair.  The
patient was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit for
management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease.
 2.  Alcoholic cardiomyopathy.
 3.  Systolic congestive heart failure.
 4.  Aortic insufficiency.
 5.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 6.  Hypertension.
 7.  Chronic back pain.
 8.  Insomnia.
 9.  History of bleeding ulcerations.
10.  Status post cardiac catheterization in [**2143-2-9**]
and in [**2141**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Home medications included)
1.  Atacand 15 mg by mouth once per day.
2.  Digoxin 0.125 mg by mouth every day.
3.  Lasix 20 mg by mouth twice per day.
4.  Prevacid.

Please note, the patient had taken none of these medications
during the past month.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in [**Location 24013**] with his
mentally disabled son.  The patient also has a daughter with
whom he has a relationship.  The patient reports drinking
three to four beers per day.  He denies any tobacco use or
illicit drugs.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient's father had a myocardial
infarction at the age of 55.  No family history of diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed his temperature was 95.5 degrees
Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 101, his blood pressure was
129/82, his respiratory rate was 35, and his oxygen
saturation was 97% nonrebreather.  In general, the patient
was sitting upright.  He was diaphoretic and appeared
uncomfortable.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed sclerae were anicteric.  Pupils were
equal, round, and reactive to light.  Positive jugular venous
distention and jugular venous pulsation to 5 cm.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  Could not appreciate any murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
Respiratory examination revealed crackles throughout with
coarse breath sounds three-fourths of the way up.  Occasional
wheezing.  The abdomen was obese, distended, without tympany.
Could not appreciate hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremity
examination revealed the extremities were cool.  Pulses were
regular with low amplitude.  Lines:  Peripherally inserted
central catheter bilaterally.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed his sodium was 133, potassium was 3.2,
chloride was 96, bicarbonate was 21, blood urea nitrogen was
10, creatinine was 1, and blood glucose was 136.  His white
blood cell count was 11.8, his hematocrit was 45.6, and his
platelets were 300.  INR was 2.1.  Calcium was 9.1, magnesium
was 1.5, and phosphorous was 4.5.  Urinalysis showed moderate
blood with 100 protein and occasional bacteria.  Creatine
kinase was 350.  CK/MB was 9.  Troponin T was 0.05.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray on admission
revealed bilateral pulmonary infiltrates associated with a
large heart consistent with worsening congestive heart
failure.

Electrocardiogram on admission showed tachycardia at 120
beats per minute.  Normal axis.  Intraventricular conduction
delay with left bundle-branch morphology.  Poor R wave
progression.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit.

During the first 24 hours of admission, the patient was
electively intubated secondary to a respiratory rate of
greater than 35 and persistent respiratory distress.  A
Swan-Ganz catheter and arterial line were placed.

Initial numbers on telemetry showed a right atrial pressure
of 22, right ventricle of 70/22, a wedge pressure of
approximately 45, and a pulmonary artery pressure of 70/50.
The patient had a calculated cardiac index of 1.

An echocardiogram was obtained which showed an left
ventricular ejection fraction of 15%.  It was consistent with
aortic insufficiency of greater than 2+ and mitral
regurgitation of 2+.  There was no effusion.

The patient was stated on milrinone and a Lasix drip.  He had
a temperature spike to temperature maximum of 102.6 degrees
Fahrenheit during the first 24 hours of admission.  Cultures
were sent.

 1.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  (a)  Coronary:  The patient with
clean coronary arteries by outside hospital catheterization
from [**2143-2-9**].  The patient was continued on aspirin
and Lipitor throughout the admission.  His cardiac enzymes
were cycled on admission, and the patient ruled out for a
myocardial infarction.

The patient was started on captopril on [**2143-8-29**].
This dose was titrated to control the patient's blood
pressure.  However, by [**2143-9-11**], orthostatic
hypotension was an issue.  In addition, the patient had a
increase in from his baseline creatinine.  At that time, the
ACE inhibitor was discontinued.  The patient was not to be
discharged on an ACE inhibitor as he continued to have low
blood pressures with systolic blood pressures around 100.  He
has no history of coronary artery disease, so this should not
affect his long-term mortality.

(b)  Rhythm:  The patient had pulseless polymorphic
ventricular tachycardia on admission with a magnesium of 1.5.
He required cardioversion for this episode.

Following cardioversion, the patient continued to be
tachycardia with cardiac output and cardiogenic shock.  The
tachycardia slowly resolved beginning on [**2143-8-27**] as
the patient's temperature and white blood cell count
decreased.  On [**2143-8-28**], the patient had an episode of
rapid atrial fibrillation on dobutamine.  He received digoxin
loading at that time.

Over the next few days, the patient continued to have
occasional tachycardia which was attributed to his low
cardiac output and infection.

Electrophysiology was consulted during this admission to
place an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in the
patient given his history of pulseless ventricular
tachycardia.  However, the patient adamantly refused to have
an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placed after
discussing this with multiple health care workers including
the primary team, the electrophysiologist, and Psychiatry.
The patient understood that without an implantable
cardioverter-defibrillator he could revert into ventricular
tachycardia and possible die.

The patient was started on amiodarone for his arrhythmia on
[**2143-9-10**].  He was to be loaded with amiodarone 400
mg twice per day times one week.  Following this, he was to
receive amiodarone 400 mg by mouth once per day times two
week and then continue on a standing dose of amiodarone 200
mg by mouth once per day indefinitely.  He was encouraged to
follow up with Electrophysiology in the future if he decided
to have an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placed.

(c)  Pump:  The patient has a history of systolic congestive
heart failure and alcoholic cardiomyopathy.  On admission, he
had an ejection fraction of 15% with 2+ aortic insufficiency
and 2+ mitral regurgitation.

On admission, the patient was started on milrinone and
Neo-Synephrine to increase his cardiac output.  He was fluid
restricted at 1.5 liters on admission.  On [**2143-8-26**]
the patient was started on hydralazine for afterload
reduction.  On [**2143-8-27**], the milrinone was
discontinued, and the patient was started