Admission Date:  [**2197-5-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2197-5-31**]

Date of Birth:   [**2148-10-22**]       Sex:  F

Service:

This is to dictate notable events since the last discharge
summary.

Patient remained in house for an additional two weeks while
rehabilitation placement was arranged.  Of note, the patient
was given a Psychiatry Consult for question of suicidal
ideation.  Ultimately, the psychiatrist felt that the patient
was not exhibiting any suicidal ideation and did not
recommend any additional treatment at this time.  The patient
was noted to have slowly increasing white blood cell count
and routing cultures were sent including sputum.  Her sputum
grew out Staph aureus, as well as enterobacteria, which is
pansensitive.  Patient was placed on vancomycin empirically,
as well as Levaquin.  The patient also had a chest x-ray
which showed a left-sided retrocardiac opacity concerning for
a pneumonia.  The patient was planned to continue course of
these antibiotics for seven days to treat this pneumonia.
Respiratory status did not deteriorate and she remained
saturating well on >.......< collar.

An additional event with the patient, she received Roxicet
for pain control.  She was noted to have several bradycardic
episodes into the 40s associated with her doses of Roxicet.
Patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout these
episodes and the medication was discontinued and Cardiology
was called in consultation.  The electrophysiologist and
cardiologist saw the patient and felt that it may have been
medication related or possibly a vagal episode.  They did not
recommend any additional treatment or did not feel that an
electrophysiology evaluation was necessary at this time.
Patient essentially remained stable.  Despite her slightly
white blood cell count, she did not have any fevers.

She continued with Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy
as she tolerated and remained on goal tube feeds.  The
patient underwent a swallow evaluation.  She was noted to
have episodes of penetration of the vocal cords without overt
aspiration and it was recommended that she take only thin
liquids at this time, however, the patient had difficulty
taking even thin liquids.  So, essentially at the time of
discharge to rehabilitation, she remains solely on tube
feeds, >.......<.

DATE OF DISCHARGE:  [**2197-5-31**].

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Remain the same with the addition
of a seven day course of vancomycin, as well as a seven day
course of levofloxacin.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 11889**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 33441**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2197-5-30**]  03:37
T:  [**2197-5-30**]  16:25
JOB#:  [**Job Number 49290**]
