Admission Date:  [**2142-7-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2142-8-9**]


Service:  OMED
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77-year-old
woman with renal cell carcinoma, metastatic to the lungs, who
presented to the Emergency Room with hemoptysis.  The patient
was in her usual state of health until the morning of
admission when without warning she began having a
not associated with emesis.

Per the patient report, blood filled the toilet bowel and was
significantly more than one cup.  The patient coughed for 1-2
min each time bringing up small amounts of bright red blood.
The patient denied any antecedent fevers, chills, cough,
upper respiratory infection symptoms, sinus symptoms, nausea,
history of hemoptysis.

On arrival to the Emergency Room, the patient's temperature
was 95.6, pulse 73, blood pressure 94/48, oxygen saturation
94% on room air at rest, with activity the patient
desaturated to 89% on room air, and the patient was
transferred to the floor.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Renal cell carcinoma diagnosed in
[**2137**].  The patient is status post right nephrectomy in
[**2138-10-20**].  The patient was observed until [**2140-6-19**] at
which time she began low-dose IL2, tolerating all 14 cycles.
No other therapy to date.  2.  Abnormal mammogram in [**2140**].
The patient had focal atypical ductal hyperplasia and
atypical lobular hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ,
multiple foci.  3.  Hypothyroidism.  4.  Atypical chest pain.
In [**2140-5-19**], Persantine MIBI showed no electrocardiogram
changes, no ejection fraction, no perfusion defects.  5.
Venostasis ulcers by chart.  Cellulitis per the patient.  The
patient has q.d. VNA for dressing changes.  6.  Life-long
left facial droop.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Synthroid 100 mcg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  SULFA CAUSES A RASH.  INTRAVENOUS CONTRAST CAUSES
RASH.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her husband in
[**Name (NI) 1468**].  She has no children.  No tobacco or alcohol use.
She worked until [**2138**] doing office work for [**Last Name (un) 8320**] [**Doctor Last Name 11586**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission temperature
was 97.2??????, heart rate 76, blood pressure 110/55, respirations
34, initially 22 when more calm, oxygen saturation 96% on
room air.  HEENT:  Anicteric sclerae.  Moist mucous
membranes.  No sinus tenderness.  Erythema and slight
swelling at the left corner of the mouth.  Neck:  Supple.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rhythm with no gallops.  Pulmonary:
Poor air movement without localizing features.  No stridor or
wheezes. Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended with normal
bowel sounds.  Extremities:  Bilateral lower extremity
wrapped in Kerlix with skin changes consistent with chronic
venous insufficiency.  Neurological:  The patient was alert
and oriented times four.  Left facial droop with corner of
the mouth turned slightly down, and eye lid did not elevate
as much as the right.  Cranial nerves II-VI and VIII-XII were
functionally intact.  Strength 5 out of 5 and symmetric in
all major groups.  Sensation intact to light touch.  Deep
tendon reflexes normal and symmetric.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count 4.8,
hematocrit 41, platelet count 175,000; sodium 133, chloride
99.

CT angiogram on [**2142-7-15**], showed no evidence of
pulmonary embolus, marked progression of bilateral infrahilar
lung mass and subcarinal and bilateral hilar lobe
lymphadenopathy.  There was resulting compression of the
mainstem bronchi bilaterally and severe compression of the
bronchus intermediate.

Head MRI showed large intracellular soft tissue mass lesion
with suprasellar extension, invasion of the cavernous
sinuses, superior displacement and compression of the optic
chiasm and homogenous enhancement, most likely representing a
large pituitary macroadenoma, possibility of meningioma, no
mass affect on the brain parenchyma.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On admission to the floor, the patient was
hemodynamically stable.  CT angiogram showed no evidence of
pulmonary embolism.  Marked compression of bilateral
infrahilar lung masses and subcarinal bilateral hilar
lymphadenopathy were seen with resultant compression of the
mainstem bronchi bilaterally and severe compression of the
bronchus intermediate.

Etiology of the hemoptysis was likely tumor.  On hospital day
#3, the patient's oxygen saturation dropped to 88% on 10 L
nasal cannula with stable blood pressure.  The patient was
transferred to the MICU and intubated for hypoxemia with
hemoptysis.  The patient subsequently underwent bronchoscopy
with stenting of the bronchus intermediate and left mainstem


bronchus with Argon coagulation of right lower lobe tumor.
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was extubated on
hospital day #4.

Shortly after extubation, the patient became hypotensive with
systolic blood pressure in the 90s associated with decreased
urine output of an average of 40 cc/hr.  The patient was
bolused with normal saline with good response.  The patient
subsequently became hypotensive again with decreasing oxygen
saturation and increasing congestion with question of
aspiration pneumonia versus postobstructive pneumonia.  The
patient was reintubated for airway protection.  The patient's
hypotension was not responsive to 2.5 L normal saline fluid
boluses, and the patient was started on Dopamine for blood
pressure support.

The patient was started on intravenous Vancomycin,
Ceftriaxone, and Flagyl for suspected postobstructive
pneumonia versus aspiration pneumonia.  The patient's sputum
had grown MRSA.  The patient was continued on intravenous
antibiotics for a 10-day course.

On hospital day #8, the patient was not able to be weaned off
Dopamine, and cortical stimulation test was sent which was
positive suggesting adrenal insufficiency as the cause of
hypotension.  An Endocrine consult was obtained.  The patient
had an MRI of the brain which showed a large intracellular
soft tissue mass lesion with suprasellar extension, invasion
of the cavernous sinuses, superior displacement and
compression of the optic chiasm, likely representing a large
pituitary microadenoma versus meningioma.  Laboratory studies
indicated low somatomedin (IgF -1), low ACTH, low FSH and LH
with a normal prolactin, and low free T4.

On review of the MRI, the patient's panhypopituitarism was
likely secondary to meningioma versus renal cell metastasis
to the pituitary.  The patient was started on steroids for
adrenal insufficiency, and the patient's Synthroid dose was
increased for central secondary hypothyroidism.

The patient subsequently developed hypernatremia with sodium
of 152.  The patient was started on DDAVP for presumed
diagnosis of diabetes insipidus.  The patient's serum sodium
subsequently decreased to 142 in two days, and DDAVP was
discontinued.  On hospital day #11, Dopamine was weaned off,
and the patient was extubated and transferred to the floor.

1.  Oncology:  Neuro-Oncology was consulted regarding
recommended treatment for brain mass noted on MRI.  Brain
mass was likely a non-secreting pituitary adenoma versus
renal cell carcinoma metastasis.  Recommended surgical
removal if prognosis was greater than one year, as radiation
induced retinopathy or cranial neuropathy would appear at one
year.  The patient was subsequently evaluated by
Neurosurgery.  As the patient's prognosis was poor and the
patient was without visual symptoms at this time, they did
recommend surgery.  The patient was evaluated by Radiation
Oncology and subsequently underwent five days of radiation
treatment to right lung mass.

2.  GI:  The patient had an NG tube with tube feeds on
arrival to the floor.  The patient underwent video
oropharyngeal swallow study which showed aspiration of thin
liquids with spontaneous coughing.  The patient's NG tube was
replaced with an NJ tube for comfort.  The patient's speech
and swallow was repeated five days later.  Swallowing repeat
study showed aspiration with paste and thin liquids.  The
patient went for placement of a JG tube.

3.  Hyponatremia:  The patient developed hyponatremia with a
sodium of 126.  The patient is with an element of SIADH with
urine osmolality of 342 an