Admission Date:  [**2161-3-15**]     Discharge Date:  [**2161-3-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2087-10-1**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient's chief complaint was acute
shortness of breath with a chest pressure, diaphoresis, and
nausea.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was admitted on
[**3-15**] to the Emergency Department complaining of acute
shortness of breath with chest pressure, diaphoresis, and
nausea.

In the Emergency Department, he was noted to have ST
depressions in V5, V6 and a question of ST depressions in
lead I.  He ruled in for a myocardial infarction with his
peak creatine kinase of 311 and a troponin level of 35.  At
that time he received aspirin, Lovenox, nitroglycerin paste,
Lopressor 50 mg p.o., and Lasix 40 mg intravenously for
hypoxia and a chest x-ray which was consistent with
congestive heart failure.

He was transferred stable to the floor on Lovenox which was
switched to a heparin drip and was placed on a synergy trial.
He continued on aspirin, nitroglycerin paste, Lasix p.o.,
Cardizem (which he was taking at home).  Captopril and
Integrilin were added, and the patient was scheduled for a
catheterization for the next Monday.

Prior cardiac studies included his ejection fraction was 60%
in [**2159-2-6**].  He had mild left ventricular
hypertrophy.  In [**2161-2-6**], his exercise MIBI was 53%
maximum predicted heart rate, but no symptoms of chest pain,
and no electrocardiogram changes.  His ejection fraction at
that time was 43%.  He had global hypokinesis, fixed moderate
lateral basilar inferior defects.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (The patient's past medical history
includes)
 1.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus complicated by retinopathy,
nephropathy, and neuropathy.
 2.  Hypertension.
 3.  Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine
of 2.3 to 2.5.
 4.  Status post carotid endarterectomy.
 5.  In [**2157**], he had a colonic resection for adenoma with
high-grade dysplasia.
 6.  In [**2158**], he had prostate cancer, and he had radiation
and transurethral resection of prostate procedure.
 7.  Status post orchiectomy.
 8.  Radiation proctopathy.
 9.  Anemia, multifactorial.
10.  Peripheral vascular disease, status post right
femoral-popliteal.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] has
three children.  He was a 30-pack-year smoker in the past.
He drinks one alcoholic drink per day.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was positive for diabetes and
prostate cancer.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications on admission included
aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., he was on a heparin drip,
nitroglycerin paste, Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Cardizem-SR 240 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d.,
captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d., Integrilin drip, Colace,
ferrous sulfate 325 mg p.o. q.d., desipramine 50 mg p.o.
q.h.s., Casodex 50 mg p.o. q.d.; and he was also placed on
Tylenol, Maalox, and Serax p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  He has no known drug allergies.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  His laboratories
on the morning after admission were a white blood cell count
of 6.6, hematocrit of 24.2 (which had dropped down from 29),
platelets of 186.  Sodium of 142, potassium of 3.8, chloride
of 106, bicarbonate of 27, blood urea nitrogen of 59,
creatinine of 2.5 (up from 2.3), and a glucose of 147.  INR
was 1.2, PT of 13.3, PTT of 72.  Creatine kinase was 146,
troponin of 17.3.  Calcium of 7.9, albumin of 3.6, magnesium
of 1.9.  Total cholesterol of 158, LDL of 93.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On [**3-16**], the patient was noted to have
melena in his stool.  He underwent an endoscopy and was found
to have angioectasia in his stomach.  He had dropped his
hematocrit to 23.5.  He received a total of 4 units of packed
red blood cells.  He also underwent cauterization with
epinephrine and had no further bleeding episodes.  At that
time, the heparin and Integrilin drips were discontinued.

From a cardiac standpoint, he ruled in for a non-Q-wave
myocardial infarction.  He had no further chest pain, and on
[**3-16**] he underwent an echocardiogram (please see report
for full details).  In summary, the echocardiogram revealed
severe global hypokinesis with severe inferolateral
involvement.  His ejection fraction was noted to be 20%
to 25%.

He underwent a cardiac catheterization (please see report for
full details).  In summary, the cardiac catheterization
revealed a 40% occlusion of right coronary artery, 80%
occlusion of the left main, 90% occlusion of circumflex, with
an ejection fraction of 20% to 25%.

Cardiothoracic Surgery was consulted, and on [**3-20**], the
patient underwent a coronary artery bypass graft times two
with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending artery and saphenous vein graft to the obtuse
marginal.  At 1600, on [**3-20**], the patient was transferred
from the operating room to the Cardiothoracic Surgery
Recovery Unit on propofol and dobutamine.  He was in normal
sinus rhythm.

The patient came to the Cardiothoracic Surgery Recovery Unit
with an arterial line, a right radial and a right femoral
arterial line, a Swan-Ganz catheter, two atrial pacing wires,
and two mediastinal chest tubes.  The patient did very well
in the immediate postoperative period and was weaned off his
sedation.  Shortly thereafter, he was also waned off the
dobutamine drip.

On postoperative day one, a nitroglycerin drip was started
for mean arterial pressures of greater than 90.  He also was
started on Lopressor and an insulin drip, and he was
receiving Percocet for pain.  Of note, the patient was
extubated on the day of the operation, later on that evening
at 6 p.m.

The patient remained in normal sinus rhythm with brief bursts
of atrial fibrillation and some ventricular ectopy which
resolved with electrolyte replacement and Lopressor.  Over
the next few days, the patient was noted to have some
confusion and agitation which was treated with Haldol with
good effect.  He occasionally became disoriented but easily
reoriented.

On postoperative day three, the patient was transferred from
the Cardiothoracic Surgery Recovery Unit to [**Hospital Ward Name 121**] Six.  Once
transferred to the floor, the patient had an uneventful
postoperative course.  He continued to have some episodes of
confusion but was easily reoriented.  His activity level was
increased with the assistance of Physical Therapy and the
nursing staff; and on postoperative day six, the patient was
deemed stable and ready for discharge to home.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE:  At the time of discharge,
the patient's physical examination was as follows:  Vital
signs revealed temperature of 97.7, heart rate of 63 in
normal sinus rhythm, respiratory rate of 18, and blood
pressure of 129/65.  His oxygen saturation was 99% on room
air.  Neurologically, he was alert and oriented times three,
followed commands and was appropriate.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose, and throat revealed pupils were equal and reactive to
light.  He had no carotid bruits, and no jugular venous
distention.  Chest was clear with fine crackles in the bases.
Heart had a regular rate and rhythm, normal first heart sound
and second heart sound.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  His
abdomen was round, soft, and with positive bowel sounds.
Extremities revealed his feet were warm with 3+ pedal edema.
Skin revealed sternal wound was intact with no drainage, and
the EVH incision performed on the left thigh was intact,
slightly scabbed over.  The patient's weight on admission was
94.3 kg.  His weight on discharge was 96.9 kg.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON DISCHARGE:  The most recent
laboratory data from yesterday was a white blood cell count
of 8.1, hematocrit of 26.5, platelets of 253.  Sodium of 140,
potassium of 4.5, chloride of 105, bicarbonate of 24, blood
urea nitrogen of 54, creatinine of 2.8.  Of note, there will
be a repeat blood urea nitrogen and creatinine done prior to
his discharge.  Also of note, his captopril was discontinued
during his hospital course due to the increasing creatinine.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  (Medications on discharge include)
1.  Lopressor 75 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3.  Enteric-coated aspirin 3