Admission Date:  [**2121-7-22**]       Discharge Date:  [**2121-7-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2045-4-18**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Medicine-[**Hospital1 139**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Right leg pain

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 76 year old
female with a history of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, hemostasis,
hypertension and hypothyroidism who presented for right leg
pain and new onset atrial fibrillation.  Her venous stasis
has been constant for the past few years and has had no
changes.  The new pain began three weeks ago as she was
bending over to water her plants.  The pain began in the
right side of her buttock and increased in severity over the
past week.  She has noted the pain occurs when she applies
pressure to her heels whenever she walks or stands.  Her pain
goes from her heels to her knees to her hips and she
describes it as sharp, shooting pain along the backs of her
legs.  She has had no recent trauma.  She has no shortness of
breath or recent travel.  Upon entry to the Emergency Room
the patient was found to be in atrial fibrillation.  She has
not had any recent change in her medications, no recent
infections.  She does not have any symptoms such as chest
pain or palpitations and she claims that her dose of
Synthroid has been constant for years.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Her physical examination on admission
had vital signs 98.4, 148/palpable for blood pressure, pulse
120, oxygen saturation 87% on room air and 96% on 2 liters.
General appearance, the patient is a well appearing, well
nourished female in no apparent distress.  Pupils were
equally round and reactive to light and accommodation.  There
was no evidence of thrush.  There were multiple moles on the
patient's skin.  The cardiac examination is significant for
an irregularly irregular heart rhythm with normal rate, no
murmurs, rubs or gallops.  The patient's lungs were
bilaterally clear to auscultation with good breathsounds.
Her abdominal examination had positive bowel sounds, soft,
nontender and slightly distended.  Extremities showed no
cyanosis or clubbing but there was bilateral lower extremity
edema with brawny reddish discoloration and verrucous nodule.
The patient was refusing to let anyone touch her legs.  She
had 2+ edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her laboratory data on admission included
sodium 143, potassium 2.6, bicarbonate 36, chloride 100, BUN
16, creatinine 0.7 and glucose 134.  Her white blood cell
count was 5.4, hemoglobin 11.7, hematocrit 34.7, and
platelets 75 with an MCV of 111 and a differential including
neutrophils of 65.9, lymphocytes 26.4, monocytes 6.1,
eosinophils 1.3, basophils 0.3.  Her PT was 13.3 and her INR
was 1.2.  The patient also had an arterial blood gases done
in the Emergency Room which showed a pH of 7.37, bicarbonate
64 and an anion gap of 9.  In the Emergency Room the patient
also had several films performed.  She had a chest spiral
computerized tomography scan with contrast which showed no
evidence of pulmonary embolus, mild emphysema, stable right
upper lobe nodule, no lymphadenopathy, a high burden of
aortic plaque with ulceration evident in the inferior portion
of the thoracic aorta.  The spleen also appears to be
enlarged compared to a previous film.  Her right hip film is
positive for osteopenia, sclerotic changes of the lower
lumbar spine, osteophytes of both hip joints, left greater
than right, normal joint spaces and no evidence of fracture
dislocation.  Her right lower extremity son[**Name (NI) **] showed no
evidence of deep vein thrombosis in the right common femoral,
superficial femoral or popliteal veins.  Her chest x-ray
showed marked kyphosis and compression fractures of the
thoracic vertebra and no evidence of heart failure, focal
pulmonary opacities or pleural effusions.  In short there was
no acute cardiopulmonary disease.  Her electrocardiogram
showed atrial fibrillation at a rate of 91 beats/minute,
normal axis and intervals and T wave inversions in V4 through
V6, 1 and AVR.  The patient was also ruled out for myocardial
infarction times three.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was
significant for several other films to look for fracture or
arthritis.  Her computerized tomography scan of the hips
showed an alar fracture from the anterior to the inferior
portion and her computerized tomography scan of the lumbar
spine showed diffuse osteophyte formation, especially
prominent in the L4, L5 area.  Orthopedic Surgery was
consulted and suggested that the patient's pain was most
likely due to sciatica.  Therefore, her issues were managed
as follows:

1.  For her pain control, the patient was given Vioxx at the
beginning of her hospital stay.  Subsequently she was
switched to Percocet and soon after that she was switched to
Ultram 25 mg every four to six hours and Calcitonin nasal
spray.  For her atrial fibrillation the patient had an
echocardiogram which revealed normal left ventricular
function, size and ejection fraction greater than 55%.  She
showed no signs of failure but trace regurgitation in the
tricuspid, mitral and pulmonary valves.  The patient also had
a TSH done which came back as normal and a free T4 which was
also normal.  For her history of non-Hodgkin's disease the
patient had a staging computerized tomography scan of the
chest, abdomen and pelvis.  She also had studies sent to
evaluate her anemia and thrombocytopenia.  Her anemia is
significant for hypochromia 1+ and histiocytosis 1+,
poikilocytosis 1+ and macrocytosis 3+.  However, her Vitamin
B 12 was above normal.  Her Folate level was normal.  Her
reticulocyte count was slightly above normal at 3.3% and her
iron was low with a low TIBC and transferrin.  During her
hospital stay the patient became extremely sedated after
Percocet and Droperidol for nausea and had an arterial blood
gases done which showed a pCO2 of approximately 80.
Therefore the patient was escalative in terms of the oxygen
that was delivered via nasal cannula and escalated to a
venting mask and subsequently a nonrebreather mask.  During
this entire process the patient did not complain of shortness
of breath.  However, she was transferred to the Medicine
Intensive Care Unit for more frequent evaluations.  The
patient had five arterial blood gases done which all showed
pCO2s in the 80s and it was questioned whether that was the
patient's baseline hypocarbia.  Therefore she was transferred
after one day in the unit back to the floor and was given
Combivent inhalers, Flovent and Serevent which she
sporadically used.  The patient was maintained on 2 liters of
oxygen via nasal cannula to maintain an oxygen saturation of
approximately 90%.  Her expected condition on discharge is
stable.  Her perspective discharge status is fair.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Sciatica
2.  Pelvic fracture
3.  Atrial fibrillation
4.  Emphysema
5.  History of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma




                         DR.[**Last Name (STitle) 313**],[**First Name3 (LF) 312**] 12-766

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 10249**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2121-7-29**]  17:32
T:  [**2121-7-29**]  18:48
JOB#:  [**Job Number 26251**]
