Admission Date:  [**2124-7-13**]       Discharge Date: [**2124-8-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2069-2-16**]       Sex:  M

Service:

This is an interim discharge summary.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 55 year old
Indian male with a past medical history of hypertension who
presented to the Emergency Department on [**2124-7-13**] with
crushing substernal chest pain radiating to the back.
Approximately 15 minutes later the patient also noted
numbness of his lower extremities which lasted approximately
20 minutes.  The patient received two tablets of sublingual
Nitroglycerin and Aspirin without any significant improvement
of symptoms.  In the Emergency Department he continued to
have crushing pain and received a total of four sublingual
nitroglycerin tablets as well as 5 mg of intravenous
Lopressor times three.  He also received Morphine Sulfate 6
mg intravenously and was started on Labetalol.  Computerized
tomography scan of the abdomen was done and was notable for
descending thoracic aorta dissection, extending to the
bifurcation and into the left common iliac as well as
external iliac artery.  The patient denied dyspnea on
exertion, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, edema, shortness of
breath.  He did complain of nausea and vomiting.  He denied
palpitations.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension and questionable
hypercholesterolemia.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Atenolol 100 mg once a
day.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Denies using ethanol or smoking tobacco.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Heartrate 76, blood pressure 156/80,
respirations 20.  Oxygen saturation is 99% on room air.
Blood pressure on the right arm 144/81, left arm 144/83.  In
general this is a mildly obese Indian male lying in bed in
pain, alert and oriented times three.  Head, eyes, ears, nose
and throat, pupils equal, round and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Bilateral extraocular movements intact.
Sclera anicteric.  Mucosal membranes are moist.  Oropharynx
is clear.  No jugulovenous distension and no thyromegaly.
Cardiovascular, regular rate and rhythm, II/VI systolic
murmur to left upper sternal border.  Lungs clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen is soft, nontender,
nondistended with positive bowel sounds.  No organomegaly.
Extremities, 2+ dorsal pedis, posterior tibial pulses
bilaterally, 1+ left radial and 2+ right radial pulses.
Neurological examination, nonfocal.  Cranial nerves II
through XII were intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  White cell count 7.7, hematocrit 38.4,
platelets 182.  Sodium 144, potassium 3.6, chloride 104,
bicarbonate 27, BUN 25.  Creatinine 1.2, glucose 126,
creatinine kinase 183, troponin less than 0.3.  Calcium 9.4,
phosphate 2.7, magnesium 2.0.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Cardiovascular - The patient was
transferred to the floor and started on Labetalol intravenous
drip to control his blood pressures.  On [**7-14**], 9 PM he
became agitated and was given Haldol intravenously.  Shortly
after he experienced an episode of hypotension with pulseless
electrical activity arrest.  The code was called.  The
patient was resuscitated.  His mean arterial pressures
remained in the low 30s for five minutes.  He was intubated
for hypoxia.  After intubation his blood pressures soon
needed to be controlled with two agents, Labetalol and
Nipride to decrease sheer forces.  Nipride drip was stopped a
few days after initiation secondary to renal toxicity.  The
patient was initially scheduled for surgery, however, the
surgery was cancelled secondary to mental status changes and
later fevers.  On [**2124-7-23**], Mr. [**Known lastname 109742**] developed
another episode of hypotension requiring brief use of
Dopamine drip.  Echocardiogram was repeated and showed trace
aortic insufficiency, no vegetations and normal aortic root
without dissection and normal left ventricular function at
about 55%.  This echocardiogram was considered to be
unchanged from the one done initially on admission.  On
[**2124-7-28**], computerized tomography scan of the chest
and abdomen were done and showed no change in aortic
experience, no retroperitoneal collections.  The patient was
started on p.o. antihypertensives on [**2124-7-31**].  On the
same day magnetic resonance imaging scan was done and showed
proximal arch wall thickness to be decreased from 13 mm to 6
mm with decreased hematoma.  It also showed partial
thrombosis in the false lumen without occlusion of the full
and normal renal arteries.  By [**8-5**], blood pressures
were controlled with p.o. medications, Lopressor 150 t.i.d.,
Diltiazem 90 q.i.d. and Hydralazine 75 q.i.d. as well as
minimal Lopressor intravenous drip.

Neurological - The patient had mental status change shortly
after the administration of 6 mg of Morphine Sulfate in the
Emergency Department.  He became disorientated and agitated
on the floor.  He had emesis times three.  An attempt was
made to reverse the action of narcotics with Naloxone which
resulted in agitation and required the use of benzodiazepines
and narcotics.  Neurological consult was obtained on [**7-14**]
and felt that the patient's symptoms were consistent with
toxic metabolic encephalopathy.  On [**7-15**], the patient
became agitated again, required Haldol and was intubated.
Computerized tomography scan of the head was done on [**7-16**]
and was negative for intracranial bleed or any other
abnormalities.  By [**8-5**], at the time of this dictation,
the patient was fully sedated for 24 hours, still minimally
responsive with some eye tracking and no other responses.  he
had no focal signs on neurological examination.

Infectious disease - Shortly after admission the patient
developed fever and was started on antibiotics for presumed
aspiration pneumonia.  He was initially started on Cefepime,
Vancomycin and Levofloxacin, however, when his respiratory
cultures came back positive for guaiac positive
Staphylococcus and his gram stain was positive for gram
negative rods, his antibiotic regimen was changed to
Oxacillin.  The patient continued to have fevers and
infectious disease consult was obtained.  They recommended
getting an abdominal ultrasound and liver function tests.
Abdominal ultrasound showed positive sludge in the
gallbladder without any evidence of cholecystitis as well as
benign hemangioma of the liver.  Liver function tests showed
increased LDH and alkaline phosphatase enzymes.  Mr. [**Known lastname 109742**]
continued to have fevers on Oxacillin and his antibiotics
were changed once again to Unasyn.  Unfortunately the patient
developed a rash to this medication in two days and Unasyn
was changed to Clindamycin and Levofloxacin and then to
Flagyl and Levofloxacin.  At this time his cultures were only
positive for coagulase negative Staphylococcus from the
catheter tip and gram positive Staphylococcus in the sputum.
He finished the course of antibiotics on [**2124-7-31**] and
remained off of antibiotics since then until the time of this
dictation.  His temperature and white blood cell count
remained stable.  No new positive cultures were detected.

Pulmonary - The patient developed increased oxygen
requirements shortly after admission.  The Swan catheter was
flooded and showed right atrial pressure of 17, right
ventricular pressure of 37/18, pulmonary artery pressure of
54/16 and capillary wedge at 23.  Later he developed adult
respiratory distress syndrome-like picture with multiple
bilateral passing opacities and bilateral pleural effusions
on chest x-ray.  His ventilation settings were changed to low
title volumes and increased positive end-expiratory pressure.
He also developed nonanion gap metabolic acidosis.  On [**2124-7-30**], bronchoscopy was done which showed patchy thick
secretions throughout the upper and lower lobes bilaterally
without any masses.  Bronchial alveolar lavage results showed
4+ PMNs on gram stain and no organisms.  By [**2124-8-4**]
metabolic acidosis was corrected with bicarbonate infusion.
Chest x-ray and clinical examination as well as oxygen
requirements improved and the patient was extubated.  At the
time of this discharge, Mr. [**Known lastname 109742**] remained off of the
ventil