Admission Date:  [**2108-10-26**]       Discharge Date:  [**2108-11-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2037-8-20**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 71 year-old female
complaining of chest pain at home radiating to the back and
jaw on [**2108-10-22**].  Echocardiogram at that time showed
anterior ischemia with ejection fraction of 54 percent.
Catheterization report showed a left main coronary artery, 30
percent occluded distally LAD, 90 percent proximally D1, 90
percent mid left circumflex, 90 percent OM1, 80 to 70 percent
OM2 70 percent.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hypertension,
abdominal aortic aneurysm, cerebrovascular accident in [**2104**],
left nephrectomy, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and
gastroesophageal reflux disease.  Home medication included
aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d., Lipitor 20
mg p.o. q.d., Dilantin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d., Colace, Cardizem
CD 240 mg p.o. q.d., Zoloft 100 mg p.o. q.d., Labetalol 200
mg p.o. b..d.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was taken by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] to the
operating room and underwent coronary artery bypass graft
times four [**2108-10-29**] with LIMA to the LAD, SVG to OM1
and to ramus, SVG to diagonal.  Postoperatively the patient
did well, was extubated and went off drips on postoperative
day #1.  However, due to her history of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease she was kept in the Intensive Care Unit for
two extra days to ensure that her respiratory status was
adequate.  Patient was transferred out to the floor on
postoperative day number three and patient did well
postoperatively, underwent extensive pulmonary toilet.  Chest
tube was discontinued without incident.  Sternal wire was
discontinued.  Prior to discharge patient was able to
ambulate at level three.  Upon discharge her vital signs were
stable, afebrile.  Chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally with some diffuse wheezes.  Heart was regular
rate and rhythm, normal sinus.  Incision was clean, dry and
intact, no drainage.  Sternum was stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATION:  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d., Lopressor
12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d., Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. times five days,
potassium chloride 20 mEq p.o. q.d. times five days, Zoloft
100 mg p.o. q.h.s., Dilantin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d., Lipitor 20
mg p.o. q.d., Percocet 1 to 2 mg p.o. q. 4 to 6 h p.r.n.,
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., albuterol MDI.

Patient will be discharged to a rehabilitation facility and
told to follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] in three to four weeks.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 186**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2108-11-4**]  09:10
T:  [**2108-11-4**]  09:25
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
