Admission Date:  [**2178-4-9**]       Discharge Date: [**2178-4-17**]


Service: NEUROLOGY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 78-year-old woman with
a past medical history of hypertension and dementia who
presented with increased confusion and difficulty ambulating.
The history was obtained from her husband who reports that
over the three days prior to admission she had had increased
difficulty with memory, walking safely at home, tremors in
her right arm and leg, and then two days prior to admission
had an unwitnessed fall in the bathroom.  She was found on
the ground but was awake and alert without obvious loss of
consciousness or head trauma.  In the Emergency Department
she was noted to have seizures.  Two observers felt that she
had left eye deviation and tonic-clonic movements of the left
arm only.  She was given lorazepam and intubated for airway
protection by the Emergency Department staff.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Hypertension.  2. Recurrent urinary
tract infection.  3. Dementia and Alzheimer's disease.  4.
Possible optic neuritis in the past.  5. Cataract surgery.
6. Osteoporosis.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  1. Aspirin 81 mg once a day.  2. Lisinopril.
3. Hydrochlorothiazide.  4. One tablet once a day.  5.
Olandronate once a week.  6. Bactrim for urinary tract
infection.  7. Multivitamins.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a nonsmoker, minimal alcohol intake,
lives at home with her husband who essentially cares for her.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Significant for recent urinary tract
infection, no recent weight loss, visual changes, fevers,
chills, night sweats, upper respiratory illnesses, recent
injury, shortness of breath, chest pain, depression, anxiety,
hematuria or other significant GI or respiratory symptoms.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission her temperature was 98.2,
blood pressure 104-167/50-72, pulse 90-120.  She was
intubated and ventilated on FIV with a PEEP of 5, rate of 18,
tidal volume of 500.  General:  She was an obtunded elderly
lady lying in bed.  HEENT:  Atraumatic, sclerae anicteric,
mucous membranes moist.  She appeared to have bitten her
upper lip and tongue.  Neck:  No lymphadenopathy or carotid
bruits.  Heart:  Sounds were normal.  Chest:  Clear to
auscultation.  Abdomen:  Soft and nontender without palpable
masses or organomegaly.  Extremities:  There was no
peripheral edema and the distal pulses were intact and
symmetric.  There were no rashes.  Neurologic:  She was
responsive to painful stimuli only.  There was no blink to
stress on either side.  The pupils were equal, round and
reactive to light.  There was pupillary defect.  She had
rising eye movements with full conjugate range.  The doll's
eye reflex was intact.  There was no facial droop.  Gag and
corneals were intact.  The right leg was externally rotated.
There was no flaccidity.  Extensor movement to pain in the
upper extremities and withdrawal bilaterally in both legs.
Her reflexes were 2+ throughout.  They were 0 at the ankles
and both toes were upgoing.

LABORATORY DATA:  Complete blood count showed a white blood
cell count of 13.8, hemoglobin 12.3, hematocrit 37.7,
platelet count 298.  Chemistry showed a sodium of 139,
potassium 3.8, chloride 101, CO2 21, BUN 14, creatinine 0.9,
glucose 164.  Urinalysis was negative for nitrites and
leukocytes.  There were a few bacteria seen on microscopy and
cultures were eventually negative.  Her INR on admission was
1.1.

CT scan showed layered hemorrhage in the left frontal lobe
measuring 2.8 x 3.3 cm seen in eight cuts.

A chest x-ray showed no acute disease and normal placement of
the endotracheal tube.

ASSESSMENT:  This is a 78-year-old woman with a history of
Alzheimer's dementia with worsening mental status and fall in
the three days prior to admission.  There is description of
possible seizures x 2 in the Emergency Department.  Imaging
was significant for left frontal bleed which appears to be
labile and likely to be secondary to amyloid angiopathy.  The
bleed looks like it has occurred in stages as there was
layering of the blood on imaging.  The seizures are likely to
be secondary to hemorrhage.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  She was admitted to the intensive care unit
was loaded with fast phenytoin and her anticoagulation was
held.  She was commenced on maintenance Dilantin.

As she had maintenance of her blood pressure between 120 and
160 using labetalol, she was placed on Protonix and
Pneumoboots prophylaxis.  She was extubated after two days
with some improvement in her examination, however she
remained confused, unable to follow one-step commands,
spontaneous movement of the left side but minimal movement on
the right.  Repeat imaging showed essentially a large left
frontal hemorrhage and a few areas of abnormality consistent
with amyloid angiopathy.  The neurologic intensive care unit
and neurology inpatient team had long discussions with Ms.
[**Known lastname 15860**] family and they expressed the wish that she would have
not wanted any artificial life-prolonging treatment or
artificial hydration or nutrition.  She was therefore made
DNR/DNI.  Her medications were discontinued apart from
Dilantin for seizure prophylaxis, morphine for dyspnea and
comfort hyoscine patch to keep her secretions dry.  It was
felt that she could eat and drink as she wished and that
aggressive measures to treat her urinary tract infections or
aspiration would not be pursued.  Palliative care consult was
sought who had long discussions with the family and felt that
she would benefit from placement in a skilled nursing
facility.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Dilantin 100 mg t.i.d. p.o.
2. Morphine 2-4 mg p.r.n.
3. Hyoscine patch 1 per day.
4. Lorazepam 2 mg q.h.s. for sleep.

FOLLOW UP:  The patient will follow up through her primary
care physician.

Her family would like to have ongoing discussion about her
status.




                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 12114**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 15861**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2178-4-17**]  10:26
T:  [**2178-4-17**]  10:42
JOB#:  [**Job Number 15862**]


