Admission Date: [**2148-9-26**]        Discharge Date: [**2148-10-11**]

Date of Birth:  [**2084-6-4**]        Sex:

Service:


ATTENDING PHYSICIAN:  [**Name10 (NameIs) 58524**] effort between Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] [**Last Name (Prefixes) 411**] and Dr. [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initial (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 70**].

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 64 year old male
transferred in from [**Hospital6 8283**], for pulmonary
and infectious disease evaluation with a likely biopsy.
Initially he presented on [**2148-9-23**] with moderate
dyspnea causing difficulty with daily activities.  In the
Emergency Room there he was found to be in atrial
fibrillation.  He was initially afebrile but chest x-ray
showed some hilar adenopathy.  Follow up CTA was negative for
a pulmonary embolism but later confirmed adenopathy.  The
hospital course at [**Hospital3 4298**] was significant for a
fever to 102 and new left lower lobe pneumonia by chest x-
ray.  He was placed on antibiotic therapy for his pneumonia.
His complete blood count had increased to 18.6.  His sputum
and blood cultures were negative.  His PPD was negative but
there was suspicion for lymphoma or leukemia with
superimposed pulmonary infection.  Please refer to the
admission notes by the Medical Service.

On history the patient says his symptoms began approximately
24 hours prior to admission.  He had some palpitations but no
cough.  He was seen on the Medical and Cardiology Service for
quite a while prior to his cardiac surgery.  He was being
worked up for a pulmonary evaluation at he time of his
admission.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Atrial fibrillation on outpatient
Digoxin and Coumadin.

Hypertension.

Restless leg syndrome.

History of diverticulosis, status post exploratory
laparotomy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  His medications on arrival to the hospital were
Atenolol 50 mg p.o. twice daily, Azithromycin 500 mg p.o.
once daily, Cefotaxime 1 gm q. 8 hours, Mirapex unknown dose,
Sinemet 25/100 two tablets every bedtime for his restless leg
syndrome, question of Diltiazem 120 mg p.o. once daily,
Lanoxin unknown dose.

The patient was worked up on the Medical and Cardiology
Services for his dyspnea and hypoxia.  He also had atrial
fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response as well as
workup for his lymphadenopathy.  He was initially seen by
Case Management on [**9-27**].  Over the first couple of days
he still complained of shortness of breath with any activity,
as he continued to be worked up by the Cardiology Service for
his recurrent atrial fibrillation.  Computerized tomography
scan of the chest was performed on [**9-27**].  Pulmonary
consult was also obtained.  He was also placed on a heparin
drip for his atrial fibrillation.  The patient did have a
history of some mitral regurgitation with his shortness of
breath when he was in atrial fibrillation.  It was
recommended that the patient have transesophageal
echocardiography with possible cardioversion.  At some point
when he was stable, he continued on the heparin drip.  It was
also determined to have the chest computerized tomography
scan done.  He was also seen by Electrophysiology in
consultation for cardiology.  Additional history obtained by
the electrophysiology fellow showed that the patient did have
a known history of mitral regurgitation and a question of
Marfan's syndrome.  He was followed by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 58525**]
at [**University/College 58526**] in [**Location 8398**]where the patient was
from.  He had no follow up for the three years prior to
admission, but went into atrial fibrillation approximately
nine days before he was seen by the electrophysiology fellow.
He was usually in sinus rhythm but had three prior episodes
of atrial fibrillation over 20 years with DC cardioversion
times two.  The computerized tomography scan of the chest was
negative for pulmonary embolus but positive for
lymphadenopathy and positive for pleural effusion with
scattered pulmonary nodularities.  The patient also on
evaluation was being worked up for the possibility of
encarditis for which the transesophageal echocardiography was
ordered to do DC cardioversion for his atrial fibrillation
and rule out the endocarditis at the same time.  An
infectious disease consult was also asked for.

[**Last Name (STitle) 58527**]nued to be followed daily by the pulmonary fellow,
the cardiology fellow and the Electrophysiology Service.  On
[**9-29**], he was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit for
transesophageal echocardiography and DC cardioversion with
plan to start him on some low dose Nipride and increase his
Captopril as tolerated.  In addition, attempts were made
throughout the course preoperatively to obtain his records
from [**State 531**] City.  Infectious Disease saw the patient in
consultation, please refer to their notes.  The patient had
DC cardioversion in the Coronary Care Unit on [**9-30**].  He
continued diuresis with intravenous Lasix.  His
transesophageal echocardiography also showed a foiled mitral
valve leaflet with 3 to 4 plus mitral regurgitation.  He was
referred for cardiac catheterization.  He underwent cardiac
catheterization on [**9-30**], which showed a wedge pressure
of 28 V waves to 40 ml of mercury.  Left ventriculography was
not performed in his right dominant system.  He had a normal
left main with mild left anterior descending disease, 50
percent distal circumflex lesion and moderate proximal
ectasia of the right coronary artery with several mitral
regurgitation.  Intra-aortic balloon pump was placed and the
patient was referred to Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] for consideration of
mitral valve replacement versus repair, and the patient was
consulted on [**9-30**].  Medications at that time
preoperatively were as follows:  Atenolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d., Oxacillin 1 gm intravenously q. 4
hours, Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. once daily, Captopril 12.5 mg
p.o. three times daily. Additional medication is Pramipexole
dihydrochloride 0.5 mg p.o. three times daily.  The patient
was also finishing an Azithromycin course as well as
Levofloxacin.

On examination his height is 6 feet 6 inches tall with a
weight of 225 pounds.  His heart rate was 110 at the time of
examination with a blood pressure of 106/54, respiratory rate
20, sating 96 percent on room air.  He appeared tired, was
lying flat though in no apparent distress.  He was alert and
oriented times three, grossly and neurologically intact and
appropriate.  He had no carotid bruits.  His chest was clear
bilaterally.  His heart had a S1 and S2 tone with a Grade
III/VI systolic ejection murmur, loudest at the apex with
radiation to the left subclavian.  He appeared to not have
any peripheral edema.  His balloon was in place in his right
groin and 1:1.  His abdomen was soft, flat, nontender,
nondistended with positive bowel sounds.  His abdominal scars
were well healed.  His feet were cold to touch on the right,
greater than the left.  He had pulses on the right as
follows, dorsalis pedis 1 plus, posterior tibial 2 plus,
radials 2 plus, carotids 2 plus, on the left 2 plus across
dorsalis pedis, posterior tibial, radial and carotids.

Laboratory data preoperatively were as follows:  White count
17.9, hematocrit 34.0, platelet count 406,000, PT 19.0, PTT
52.2, INR 2.3.  Sodium 142, potassium 3.4, chloride 103,
bicarbonate 26, BUN 24, creatinine 1.1, with a blood sugar of
120.  Calcium 8.7, phosphorus 3.0, magnesium 2.7, albumin
3.5, blood cultures times two were pending at that time.  His
chest x-ray from [**9-26**], showed bilateral effusions and
evidence of congestive heart failure.  Additional laboratory
data were as follows, ALT 90, AST 34, LDH 573, alkaline
phosphatase 96 and total bilirubin of 0.7.  TIBC 303,
ferritin 494, TRF 233.  Iron 38.  TSH 0.6.

Th[**Last Name (STitle) 1050**] was also seen by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 58528**] from
Cardiothoracic Surgery, fellow, in preparation for his
surgery.  The goal in the days prior to his surgery was to
review his pulmonary status and try to improve his cardiac
index as well a