Admission Date: [**2177-11-8**]        Discharge Date: [**2177-11-27**]

Date of Birth:  [**2108-1-10**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 15017**] is a 69-year-old man
with a history of CAD (coronary artery disease) status post
MI (myocardial infarction) with congestive heart failure in
the past, presented to the emergency room on [**11-7**] with
a complaint of dyspnea, orthopnea and chest discomfort x10
days.  He had presented to his primary care provider's office
prior to that and the primary care sent him to the  emergency
room with a CHF (congestive heart failure) exacerbation.  He
was cathed about a week following admission, after protracted
attempts at diuresis. The catheterization showed three-vessel
disease with a 90 percent LAD (left anterior descending),
subtotal diagonals 1 and 2, circumflex 80 percent mid
stenosis, OM (obtuse marginal) of 90 percent stenosis and a
subtotal occlusions of the RCA (right coronary artery), with
an EF (ejection fraction) of 35 percent.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for CAD, CHF, COPD
(chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), GERD
(gastroesophageal reflux disease)  BPH (benign prostatic
hypertrophy), diverticulosis, with a colonoscopy
approximately 5 years ago for colonic polyps and the patient
has one kidney since birth.

No past surgical history.

No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Include aspirin 325 q.day, Combivent, Lipitor
40 q.day, lisinopril 40 q.day,  beclomethasone 2 puffs
b.i.d., Imdur 60 q.day, Protonix 40 q.day, Celebrex 200 mg 1
to 2 times per day, doxazosin 4 mg q.day, Toprol 50 mg q.day,
and nitroglycerin sublingually as needed.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with his mother and brother. [**Name (NI) **] is
retired.
ETOH(ETHYL ALCOHOL) use: None.
TOBACCO: One half to one pack per day x50 years,up to 3 packs
per day for about 10 years, estimated pack-year-history is
100.

REVIEW OF SYMPTOMS:  Sleeps poorly, probably  due to his
weight.
SKIN: Eczema no psoriasis or other lesions.
HEENT:  Glasses.  No cataracts or glaucoma.  No
headaches,epistaxis,sore throat.
RESPIRATORY: No asthma; diagnosed with pneumonia on
admission, history of COPD and dyspnea on exertion, as well
as PND (paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea).
CARDIOVASCULAR: History of angina with edema.  No
claudication or palpitations, history of orthopnea and
dyspnea on exertion.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  No hemoptysis or
hematochezia. History of GERD, no nausea or vomiting.
GENITOURINARY:  History of hematuria, no dysuria, history of
BPH with only one kidney since birth.
MUSCULOSKELETAL: History of osteoarthritis and gout.
NEURO:  No CVAs (cerebrovascular) TIAs (transient ischemic
attack) or  seizures, no syncope.
HEME: No anemia or bleeding disorders.
ENDOCRINE: No diabetes or thyroid disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Height 6 feet, weight 270 pounds.
VITAL SIGNS:  Heart rate 62, a flutter,  blood pressure
121/83, respiratory rate 18.
GENERAL:  Lying flat in bed, in no acute distress.
NEUROLOGIC: Alert and oriented x3.  Moves all extremities.
Follows commands.
RESPIRATORY: Expiratory wheezes throughout anteriorly.
CARDIOVASCULAR:  Irregularly irregular S1-S2 with a 2/6
systolic ejection murmur.
GI:  Soft, obese, nontender, nondistended with normal active
bowel sounds.  EXTREMITIES:  Warm and well-perfused with
trace edema bilaterally.  PULSES: 2+ plus radials
bilaterally, 1+ dorsalis pedis bilaterally, and 1+  posterior
tibial bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 5.8, hematocrit 33.5, platelets
138, sodium 139, potassium 4.1, chloride 101, CO2 32, BUN 21,
creatinine 0.9, glucose 102, ALT 20, AST 16, alk phos 88,
amylase 26, total bilirubin 1.0, albumin 3.7, PT 14, PTT
32.6, INR 1.2.

Echo done on [**11-10**] showed an EF (ejection fraction) of
55 percent with mild LVH (left ventricular hypertrophy) 1+ AR
(atrial regurgitation), 1+ MR (mitral regurgitation) and
moderate pulmonary hypertension.

Chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure with questionable
right lower lobe opacity versus effusion with atelectasis.

Urinalysis at that time was negative.

The patient agreed to undergo coronary artery bypass grafting
and on [**11-19**], he was brought to the operating room.
Please see the OR report for full details and summary.  The
patient had a CABG (coronary artery bypass graft) x 3 with
LIMA to the LAD and a saphenous vein graft, OM1 and OM2
sequentially. His bypass time was 66 minutes with a
crossclamp time of 38 minutes.  Additionally, the patient had
an a flutter ablation done at that time. He tolerated the
procedures well and was transferred from the operating room
to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit. At the time
transfer, the patient was A paced at 80 beats per minute with
a mean arterial pressure 71 and a CVP of 16. He had Levophed
at 0.1 mics/kg/minute and propofol 20 mics/kg/minute. The
patient did well in the immediate postoperative period.  His
anesthesia was reversed.  He was weaned from the ventilator
and successfully extubated on postoperative day 1.  The
patient remained hemodynamically stable, although he did
require Levophed fusion to maintain an adequate blood
pressure.  He also was on an insulin drip to maintain normal
blood sugars. During course of postoperative day 1, the
patient's  Levophed infusion was weaned and he was begun on
diuretics.

On postoperative day 2, the patient continued to be
hemodynamically stable although it was difficult to wean the
patient's Levophed drip without periods of hypotension.  At
that time his hematocrit was noted to be 25.  He was
transfused with 2 units of packed red blood cells. His Swan-
Ganz catheter and chest tubes were removed and he was further
weaned from his Levophed infusion. It should be noted that
the patient was in sinus rhythm since the time of surgery.

On postoperative day 3, Levophed infusion was weaned off. The
patient was requiring additional diuretics to maintain an
adequate urine output and he was kept in the cardiothoracic
intensive care unit to continue to monitor his hemodynamic
status. During the course of postoperative day 3,  the
patient was noted to have intermittent episodes of atrial
fibrillation.

On postoperative day 4, the patient remained hemodynamically
stable and in sinus tachycardia. His temporary pacing wires
were removed.  He was noted to have longer periods of being
in atrial fibrillation, than out of atrial fibrillation. At
that time, the electrophysiology service was consulted and
the patient was transferred to FA2 for continuing
postoperative care and cardiac rehabilitation.  Additionally,
pulmonary medicine was consulted to get input regarding the
patient's history of COPD.  Over the next several days,  the
patient's activity level was increased with the assistance of
the nursing staff as well as the physical therapy staff.  He
continued to be followed by the electrophysiology service and
ultimately ended up in atrial fibrillation without any
episodes of sinus rhythm and on [**11-27**], he was brought to
the electrophysiology lab for a cardioversion. He was
cardioverted x1 with 200 joules back to a sinus rhythm. The
patient was then returned to FA2 and it was decided that the
patient could be transferred to rehabilitation on the
following morning.

At the time of this dictation, the patient's physical exam is
as follows.  Temperature 98.4, heart rate 73, in sinus
rhythm.  Blood pressure 98/40, respiratory rate 20, O2 sat 94
percent on 2 liters nasal prongs.  Weight at time of
discharge 124.2 kg, on admission 122.5 kg.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 5.1, hematocrit 29, platelets
183, sodium 133, potassium 3.7, chloride 94, CO2 33, BUN 29,
creatinine 1.2, glucose 127, PT 26.3, INR 4.3.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  NEUROLOGICALLY: Alert and oriented x3.  Moves
all extremities.  Follows commands.  Nonfocal exam.
PULMONARY: Somewhat diminished in the bases otherwise clear
to auscultation.
CARDIAC:  Regular rate and rhythm.  S1-S2.  Sternum is
stable.  Incision with Steri-Strips. Minimal amount of serous
drainage at the base of the sternal incision without any
erythema.
ABDOMEN: Soft, nontender, nondistended with normal active
bowel sounds.  EXTREMITIES:  Warm and well-perfused with 2+
edema, 