Admission Date:  [**2104-1-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2104-2-8**]


Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 82 year-old male
patient with a one year history of presyncope with recent
increase in symptoms three to four weeks prior to admission.
This has also been accompanied by chest discomfort for
approximately two weeks prior to admission.  The patient
underwent cardiac catheterization at an outside hospital on
[**2104-1-3**], which revealed left main coronary artery
disease as well significant three vessel disease.  The
patient transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
on the evening of [**2104-1-3**] with a plan to undergo
coronary artery bypass graft by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Atrial fibrillation, hypertension,
congestive heart failure, status post right above the knee
amputation, status post repair of an incarcerated umbilical
hernia.  The patient is a former cigarette smoker.  Denies
alcohol intake.  Also, peripheral vascular disease.

MEDICATIONS:  Digoxin 0.25 po q.d., Neurontin 300 mg q.d.,
Ziac 1.25 mg b.i.d., aspirin 81 mg po q.d., nitroglycerin
patch and the patient is also on Coumadin for chronic atrial
fibrillation.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were temperature 97.1.
Pulse 71.  Blood pressure 179/76.  Respiratory rate 18.
Oxygen saturation 98% on 2 liters per minute nasal cannula.
Physical examination in general, the patient was in no acute
distress.  He did have bilateral expiratory wheezes.  His
coronary examination was S1 and S2 with a grade 1/6 systolic
ejection murmur.  His abdomen was benign.  Left leg had a
weak peripheral pulse.  Right leg had a well healed above the
knee amputation.

LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION:  Revealed a hematocrit 39%,
potassium 4.9, BUN 18, creatinine 0.8.  Cardiac
catheterization revealed a normal ejection fraction with left
main and three vessel coronary artery disease.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to the Operating Room
on [**2104-1-4**] with Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] where he underwent
coronary artery bypass graft times three with a left internal
mammary coronary artery to the left anterior descending
coronary artery, saphenous vein to the obtuse marginal and a
saphenous vein to the diagonal.  Intraoperatively, the
patient was noted to have a significant calcified aorta.
Postoperatively, the patient was on epinephrine,
neo-synephrine, nitroglycerin and Propofol intravenous drip.
He was transported from the Operating Room to the Cardiac
Surgery Recovery Unit and he was AV paced via his epicardial
pacing wires.  Initially postoperatively, the patient went
into atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular rate.  He
was placed on intravenous Amiodarone at that time.

Over the course of the next 48 hours or so the patient had
somewhat of a metabolic acidosis.  He remained in atrial
fibrillation with a ventricular response rate in the 90s.  He
ultimately was placed on an intravenous Dobutamine drip,
remained on Propofol for sedation and was also on insulin and
nitroprusside intravenous drips.  The patient had lactate
acidosis with a serum lactate in the 4 to 7 range.  By
postoperative day two the patient had stabilized.  He was
weaned from mechanical ventilator and ultimately extubated.
Early in the day on postoperative day three his lactate had
resolved.  He was transferred from the Intensive Care Unit to
the Telemetry floor.  However, later that day the patient
exhibited significant respiratory distress evidenced by
hypoxia and tachypnea and was transferred back into the
Intensive Care Unit at that time.  Initially he was treated
with BiPAP mask, however, his respiratory status did not
improve and he was intubated in the evening of postoperative
day three and placed on mechanical ventilation.

The next couple of days in the Intensive Care Unit the
patient remained intubated and was sedated on intravenous
Propofol and was placed on low dose Dobutamine at 3 to 5 mics
per kilo per minute.  He was given inhaled bronchodilators
through the ventilator circuit.  Over the course of the next
few days the patient remained dependent upon mechanical
ventilator.  He remained sedated.  Every time sedation was
attempted to be decreased the patient got profoundly
tachypneic as well as tachycardic.  He had difficulty
ventilating and significant problems oxygenating as well.
For this reason it was felt appropriate to proceed with a
tracheostomy as well as a PEG feeding tube.  The patient was
placed on Levofloxacin for tracheobronchitis questionable
pneumonia.  The sputum initially grew out gram negative rods,
which turned out to be Moraxella, which was resistant to
Ampicillin Penicillin.  Postoperative day five the patient
underwent echocardiogram, which revealed significant left
ventricular hypokinesis as well as tricuspid regurgitation
and mitral regurgitation.  The patient was kept on Dobutamine
and full mechanical ventilation, intravenous Dilaudid and
intravenous Propofol for sedation to tolerate the
ventilation. On [**2104-1-10**] the patient underwent
percutaneous tracheostomy as well as PEG placement by Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 333**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].  The patient tolerated the procedure
well.

On [**1-10**], the Dobutamine was ultimately weaned off.
Tube feedings were initiated via the PEG and the patient
still required full ventilatory support due to marginal
oxygenation status.  The patient was started on low dose
Lopressor on [**1-12**].  The patient also had intermittent
episodes of hypoxia requiring PEEP increased FIO2 on the
ventilator.  The patient's chest x-ray over the next couple
of days was consistent with acute respiratory distress
syndrome, which would correlate with this increased oxygen
requirement as well as the need for increased PEEP.  The
patient was continued to be tube fed at that time and the
patient had also become febrile with a white blood cell count
in the 20,000 range.  He was being treated with Levofloxacin
for the Moraxella pneumonia.

On the [**1-13**] the patient was restarted on
intravenous Dobutamine due to his periods of hypotension and
known left ventricular dysfunction.  Over the course of the
next few days the patient began to have increased gastrostomy
tube output necessitating CAT scan of his abdomen and chest
for his distended abdominal examination, increased white
count without clear explanation and in ability to tolerate
his tube feeds.  General surgery consult was obtained on the
[**1-13**] due to continued fever spikes, decreasing
level of responsiveness and inability to tolerate tube feeds.
It was the feeling of the General Surgery Service that his
was all a result of his pneumonia process and there was no
obvious intra-abdominal pathology to explain these symptoms
and concerns.  The patient underwent bronchoscopy on the [**2104-1-14**], which revealed clear watery secretions and
no purulent drainage.

The patient was ultimately started on hyperalimentation since
he continued to be intolerant of tube feeds into his stomach
via the PEG and remained fully sedated on Fentanyl drip.  He
remained in atrial fibrillation with a controlled ventricular
rate, but continued to spike fevers over the course of the
next few days.  The patient had some problems with
hyperventilation he was intermittently placed on pressure
support, however, became hypoxic and placed back on assist
control ventilation mode.  On the [**1-17**] he again
required higher FIO2 and higher PEEP due to significant
hypoxia with a PO2 in the 60s on full ventilator support.
The patient has been placed on Vancomycin due to staph not
yet speciated at that time and was on Ciprofloxacin at that
time as well for gram negative rods in his sputum.

On postoperative day 16 into 17 he began to have issues with
hypernatremia for which he received free water.  He continued
to spike fevers despite being on broad spectrum antibiotic
coverage.  He remained ventilator dependent with ARDS and
pneumonia.  He was intermittently responsive, however, he
required significant sedation to tolerate his ful