Admission Date:  [**2125-10-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2125-10-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2071-7-15**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Failure to wean, transferred from
rehabilitation facility for possible valvulopathy.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54 year old
female with a past medical history of aortic stenosis,
gradient of 76 mm of mercury who presents to [**Hospital6 1760**] for possible valvuloplasty.
Of note, the patient was recently discharged on [**2125-7-30**] after a prolonged admission for a C3-4 epidural
hematoma, leaving the quadriplegia, while the patient was on
Coumadin therapy for cerebrovascular accident prophylaxis.
Admission was complicated by acute and chronic renal failure,
congestive heart failure, anemia, and failure to wean from
ventilator, secondary to question of chest wall neuromuscular
dysfunction, aspiration pneumonia, pleural effusion and
congestive heart failure attributed to severe aortic
stenosis.  During admission the patient received a trach and
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube and was discharged
to [**Hospital 24759**] Rehabilitation for further weaning and
rehabilitation.  Since being admitted to rehabilitation she
has had moderate improvement in her right-sided weakness and
is able to swallow without difficulty.  She has had a history
of multiple urinary tract infections with Escherichia coli
and Klebsiella for which she is just started on Rocephin and
a ventilator-associated pneumonia with Pseudomonas.  Baseline
renal function is around 2.9 attributed to chronic rejection.
Worsening renal function is attributed to acute tubular
necrosis secondary to hypoperfusion.  She presents today for
further weaning of hospital valvuloplasty currently on
admission without complaints.  Ventilator settings at
rehabilitation:  SIMV with pressure support of 14/8, title
volumes around 400, respiration rate 10, FIO2 35%.  The
patient has had duration of tracheostomy collar up to four
hours q.d. over the past two months.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Aortic stenosis, gradient peak
78/6 mean 46.  2.  Quadriplegia [**2125-6-19**], secondary to C4,
C3 epidural hematoma.  3.  Cerebrovascular accident/transient
ischemic attack.  4.  End stage renal disease, status post
cadaveric explant in [**2097**] and [**2116**].  5.  Thyroid cancer,
status post thyroidectomy.  6.  Congestive heart failure,
baseline 2.0.  7.  Asthma.  8.  Osteoporosis.  9.  Congenital
absence of vagina and uterus, status post surgical
reconstruction.  10.  Depression.  11.  History of idiopathic
thrombocytopenic purpura per prior admission. The patient
received intravenous immunoglobulin.  12.  Paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation.  13.  Tertiary hyperparathyroidism.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Ceftriaxone 1 gm q.d.,
Ciprofloxacin 50 mg p.o. b.i.d., Flagyl 250 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d., .................. 45 gm, Lopressor
12.5 p.o. b.i.d., Cyclosporin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Albuterol
nebulizers, four nebulizers q.i.d., Magnesium oxide 400 mg
p.o. b.i.d., Alendronate 70 q. Sunday, Prednisone 5 mg p.o.
q.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d., Cholestyramine 4 gm p.o.
t.i.d., Synthroid .1 mcg p.o. q.d., Celexa 30 mg p.o. q.d.,
Atrovent metered dose inhaler 4 puffs q.i.d., Ativan .5 mg
t.i.d. prn, Epogen 10,000 units q. Monday and Wednesday,
Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d., Calcitonin salmon 100 IU
subcutaneously q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs on admission revealed
temperature 98.6, blood pressure 159/98, heartrate 82,
respirations 26, 99% on pressure support, 14/8, 35% FIO2.
General:  Pleasant, ill-appearing female in no acute
distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils are
equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation,
extraocular movements intact.  Mucous membranes moist.
Tracheostomy collar clean, dry and intact without erythema.
Neck supple, no jugulovenous pressure appreciated.
Cardiovascular, S1 and S2, III/VI systolic ejection murmur at
right upper sternal border radiating to carotids.
Respiratory course, breathsounds bilaterally.  Abdominal
soft, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds times
four.  Extremity 3+ pitting edema in the lower extremities.
Atrophic, warm, violaceous in color.  Neuromuscular 5/5
strength in the upper extremity on the left and lower left
extremity.  Right hand grip [**1-24**], biceps and triceps [**2-21**],
tibialis anterior [**1-24**], gastroc [**2-21**], no focal sensory loss.

LABORATORY DATA:  Data from rehabilitation revealed white
count 4.5, hematocrit 33.3, platelets 130, normal
differential.  Chem-7 was 137 sodium, potassium 5.0, chloride
108, bicarbonate 20, BUN 58, creatinine 2.9, glucose 89.
Urinalysis revealed + protein, 3+ leukocyte esterase,
positive nitrates, 4+ bacteria.  Culture data, Klebsiella
pneumonia, greater than 10 to the fifth sensitive to
Piperacillin, Gentamicin, Ceftriaxone.  [**9-22**], sputum
culture of Pseudomonas Aeruginosa sensitive to Ceptaz,
Ciprofloxacin, Tobramycin.  [**9-22**], echocardiogram showed
left ventricular ejection fraction of 70%, moderate
concentric left ventricular hypertrophy, severe aortic
stenosis with a mean gradient of 44, aortic valve 0.7 cm
squared, PA systolic pressure around 46 mm of mercury.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the CCU for
valvule opacity secondary to failure to wean, status post
complicated prior admission for C3, C4, hematoma, status post
evacuation and residual quadriplegia.  The patient is trached
and with percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube.

1.  Cardiovascular - On hospital day #3 the patient was sent
to the Catheterization Laboratory to undergo valvuloplasty.
Coronary angiogram revealed clean vessels without evidence of
stenosis.  At the time of catheterization aortic gradient
pressure, 70 mm of mercury, post dilatation 20 mm of mercury.
Procedure was deemed a success, she tolerated the procedure
well.  The patient continued on beta blocker without evidence
of hypertension arrhythmia, placed on telemetry without
dysrhythmias noted.  A Swan-Ganz catheter was placed on
hospital day #5 to better assess filling pressures which PCWP
30 revealing intravascular overload.  Attempts to diurese
were complicated by increasing creatinine and worsening renal
failure.  Aggressive Lasix drips and .................. were
attempted to diurese the patient without success as
creatinine levels rose.  Nephrotoxic agents were avoided.
Renal failure was felt to be exacerbated by dye-induced
nephropathy as well as acute tubular necrosis secondary to
periods of hypotension.  At the time of discharge, full
assessment of whether valvuloplasty was beneficial for
weaning was unattainable due to persistent volume overload
state and decline in renal function.  The patient was started
on hemodialysis with goal to return to euvolemic state.  At
that time aggressive pulmonary rehabilitation will elucidate
wether failure to wean was contributed by her aortic
stenosis.

2.  Renal function - The patient continued on Cyclosporin 100
mg, titrated with q.d. Cyclosporin level checks ranging from
100 to 200.  At the time of discharge the patient was on
Cyclosporin 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. secondary to decline in renal
function.  The patient's history of Klebsiella urinary tract
infection was continued on a full course of Ceftriaxone,
transitioned to Zosyn though the Zosyn was discontinued
secondary to thrombocytopenia.  Urinalysis on hospital day #8
was positive for 10,000 colonies of yeast, was treated with
Diflucan 100 p.o. q.d. times seven days.  Nephrotoxic agents
were avoided throughout the hospital stay with goal of
systolic blood pressure greater than 120 per recommendations
of renal team.  Decline in renal function is felt to be
secondary to dye-induced nephropathy, acute tubular necrosis
secondary to hyperperfusion and chronic renal failure
secondary to graft rejection.  The patient was started on
hemodialysis on [**2125-10-23**].  Recommendations q.o.d.,
hemodialysis through viable left arm fistula.  Duration of
dialysis unknown at the time of dictation.  Hopeful for
return in renal function once the patient reaches euvolemic
state.

3.  Pulmonary - Post procedure, attempts to wean were
complicate