Admission Date: [**2108-1-20**]        Discharge Date: [**2108-2-3**]

Date of Birth:  [**2041-8-27**]        Sex:  M

Service:  SURGERY


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 66 year-old male who
presents with abdominal pain and nausea and vomiting x4 days.
A KUB at the referring institution is consistent with small
bowel obstruction. He has had chronic abdominal pain for the
past month but it is worse this morning. He complains of left
mid abdominal pain which is sharp in nature and intermittent
and does not radiate. He does not have flatus. He denies
chest pain or shortness of breath. He did have an episode of
diarrhea 1 day prior to admission.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient has Wilson's disease,
bipolar disease, bronchiectasis, atrial fibrillation,
coronary artery disease, history of pancreatitis, status post
a Billroth II for peptic ulcer disease, chronic renal
insufficiency, status post mitral valve replacement, status
post a cholecystectomy. He has had an exploratory laparotomy,
status post bowel resection for obstruction. He is also
status post colectomy. He is also status post gastrostomy
tube placement.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 99.6, heart rate 116,
blood pressure 144/65, respirations 20. He is [**Age over 90 **]% on room
air. Generally he is awake and oriented with mild tremors.
Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. Cardiovascularly
his rate is irregularly irregular. Abdomen is soft. Does have
tenderness in the left side left lower quadrant. He is
moderately distended. He does have signs of rebound and
guarding.

LABORATORY DATA:  [**2108-1-20**]: CBC white blood count of
15.7, hematocrit 40.5, platelets of 227, PT of 12.5, PTT
25.7, INR of 1.0. Urinalysis is negative. Sodium 141,
potassium 3.5, chloride 102, HCO3 21, BUN 30, creatinine 2.0.
glucose 102. Calcium 7.9, magnesium 1.9, phosphorus of 3.5.
ALT 9, AST 21, alkaline phosphatase 112, total bilirubin 0.6,
amylase 175, lipase 243.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 66 year-old male who was
transferred from another hospital with complete small bowel
obstruction. He was admitted to the surgery service under Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2819**] with the plans of being taken to the
operating room for an exploratory laparotomy. On that evening
a left subclavian central line was placed under sterile
conditions. A post procedure chest x-ray showed the line to
be in good position. No evidence of a pneumothorax. That
evening on abdominal examination he still continued to be
tender to palpation diffusely although his distention was
improved from the enema he received in the emergency
department. Four hours after his chest x-ray patient was
taken to CT to have his abdominal image for impression of his
small bowel obstruction. This showed a moderately sized left
pneumothorax as well as a partial versus early small bowel
obstruction with probable transition point in the right lower
quadrant. The PEG tube was then placed with the post
antrectomy and Billroth II stomach. A 24 French left chest
tube was placed for treatment of pneumothorax under sterile
condition. It was then placed for pneumothorax under sterile
conditions. He was admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care
Unit for fluid resuscitation as well as serial examinations.
On the afternoon of hospital day 2 house officer was called
to patient's bedside for tachypnea and decreased O2
saturations. Patient was found to have had 300 ml of
serosanguineous fluid drained from his chest tube. A chest x-
ray showed a left lung collapse with a  mucous plug. The
central line was in good position and there was no evidence
of shift. Patient did have a productive cough at this time.
The arterial blood gas was 7.42, 31, 53 and negative 2. A
hematocrit was 31 and stable. The patient was given chest
physical therapy and pulmonology was consulted for
bronchoscopy. At this time the patient was Do Not
Resuscitate, Do Not Intubate, but on subsequent discussion he
agreed to intubation if necessary. A chest CT showed collapse
of the left lung, likely due to mucous plugging. Also showed
a left hydropneumothorax with a  left sided chest tube
extending to the left apex. Subcutaneous emphysema was also
present.

At this time the patient's saturation status continued to
deteriorate and anesthesia was called to intubate the patient
under rapid sequence. This was done without any
complications. Post intubation chest x-ray showed appropriate
placement of endotracheal tube, there continued to be dense
opacification of the left lung with mediastinal shift to the
left suggesting mucous plugging and lung collapse. Patient
later underwent bronchoscopy which found left main bronchus
without secretions. He did have thick secretions that were
aspirated from the lingula and apical segments. The right
lung was without secretions. A post bronchoscopy chest x-ray
showed partial re-expansion of the left upper lobe with some
aerated lung visualized on a background of increased opacity
of the lower lobe greater than the upper lobe. There
continued to be mediastinal shift. In regard to his small
bowel obstruction the gastrostomy tube was draining to
gravity.

On hospital day 3 the patient had a T-max of 103.1. A repeat
chest x-ray showed partial regression of the collapse of the
left lung. His abdomen continued to be soft and nontender
although he was still distended. He was on antibiotic day 2
of Zosyn for treatment of his pneumonia. His antibiotics were
later changes to aztreonam and Flagyl for presumably better
coverage. On hospital day 4 patient continued to be febrile
with a temperature of 102.4. Abdomen was soft and nontender
and had decreased distention. He did have bowel sounds. The
patient was weaned off of the ventilator. Nutrition was
consulted to evaluate patient for antral feeding and total
parenteral nutrition recommendations. He was started on total
parenteral nutrition with fat. On hospital day 5 patient was
febrile with T-max of 100.4 on Vancomycin, aztreonam and
Flagyl. He continued to be on total parenteral nutrition and
was making good urine. His insulin was increased in his total
parenteral nutrition to better control his blood glucose
levels. A repeat  chest x-ray showed atelectasis of the left
lung. It appears from the records that the patient was
extubated one day prior and was doing well until he developed
hypoxia on face mask and was reintubated after chest x-ray
showed left lung complete collapse. Bronchoscopy was repeated
on the 20th and showed a large amount of thick viscous mucus
in the left upper lobe and left lower lobe.

On hospital day 6 patient had a fever of 103.3 on Vancomycin,
aztreonam and Flagyl. He was intubated and was sedated to
assist control. A chest x-ray showed improving left lower
lobe atelectasis and a small pleural effusion. There was no
evidence of pneumothorax. It also did show a fracture of the
left third posterior rib. A later chest x-ray showed the
patient's endotracheal tube was not far enough advanced in
the trachea. It was advanced by the Intensive Care Unit team
and subsequent x-ray showed endotracheal tube in correct
position and a small left apical pneumothorax. Patient was
continued on ventilator support on hospital day 7. Patient
was afebrile on antibiotics and at goal of total parenteral
nutrition a repeat KUB showed near resolution of the
previously seen obstructive pattern. Cultures taken from the
patient's bronchial alveolar lavage showed pseudomonas and
methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus. His urine was
growing enterococcus. He was also started on his ProMod tube
feeds at 17 hours. From hospital day 8 to 10 patient
continued to afebrile on Vancomycin, aztreonam and Flagyl. He
continued to be intubated with pulmonary toilet. His tube
feeds were advanced to his total parenteral nutrition goal.

On hospital day 10 patient was doing well and extubated. He
was tolerating aggressive chest physical therapy. His small
bowel obstruction seemed to be resolved at this time.
Unfortunately patient's respiratory status later that day
deteriorated and chest x-ray showed a left lung collapse.
Patient was again reintubated and bronchoscopy performed.
This show