Admission Date:  [**2125-1-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2125-1-20**]

Date of Birth:   [**2058-8-10**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 66-year-old woman with
history of CAD status post CABG in '[**15**] with peripheral
vascular disease and inflammatory bowel disease causing
chronic diarrhea who is presenting with hypotension and
hypoxemia.

The patient had roughly two weeks' history of lightheadedness
with standing in context of her usual [**6-17**] bowel movements
and decreased appetite, nausea, and vomiting.  She also
complained of intermittent chills, but no fevers, some
fatigue, but no syncope.  No chest pain, no shortness of
breath, no change in chronic cough.  No change in urinary
symptoms.  In light of these symptoms, patient's
gastroenterologist, Dr. [**First Name (STitle) 2643**] recommended an outpatient CT
scan of her abdomen and CT was read as free air on Monday,
and patient was told to come into the ED.  She felt well,
however, and waited until day of admission to be evaluated.

In the Emergency Room upon arrival, patient noted to have a
blood pressure that was hypotensive.  She was administered 4
liters of normal saline over several hours with increase in
blood pressure to 105/50 and subsequently developed
hypoxemia, orthopnea, and CHF by chest x-ray.  Echocardiogram
by wet read showed an ejection fraction of 30% and patient's
CT reread as no retroperitoneal air and cleared by surgery.
Patient was administered 10 mg of IV Lasix with rapid
improvement in dyspnea and O2 saturations.  She was admitted
to the MICU for further evaluation of hypotension and CHF.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Coronary artery disease status post CABG in '[**15**].  Status
post MI in '[**15**].
2. Hypertension.
3. Inflammatory bowel disease.
4. Type 2 diabetes.
5. Peripheral vascular disease status post bilateral iliac
artery stents.
6. Status post TAH/BSO.
7. Hypercholesterolemia.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies except to aloe and
lanolin.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Ambien.
2. Hydralazine.
3. Lipitor.
4. Aspirin.
5. Enalapril.
6. Hydrochlorothiazide.
7. Metoprolol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her husband.  [**Name (NI) 1403**] for the
city elderly community.  She has a positive 49 pack year
history of tobacco.  No alcohol, no IV drug use.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive for 40 pound weight loss over
the past four months.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 96.4, blood pressure
105/47, pulse 70, respiratory rate 19, and O2 92% on 4 liters
nasal cannula.  In general:  She was a pale appearing woman
alert, awake, oriented in mild respiratory distress speaking
in fragmented sentences, profoundly orthopneic.  HEENT was
normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils are equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Oropharynx is clear.  Moist mucous
membranes, right greater than left carotid bruit.  Neck with
jugular venous pressure about 12 cm, supple neck, no
lymphadenopathy, no masses.  Cardiovascular is regular, rate,
and rhythm with frequent premature beats, normal S1, S2, 3/6
systolic murmur at the left sternal base.  Lungs with poor
air movement bilaterally worse at lung bases, no rales,
rhonchi, or wheezes.  Abdomen was soft, nondistended,
positive [**Doctor Last Name 515**] sign, otherwise nontender and no masses.
Normal bowel sounds, guaiac negative per ED.  Extremities:
No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Positive left femoral
bruit, 2+ femoral and PT pulses bilaterally.  Neurologic
examination:  Is moving all extremities symmetrically, no
facial asymmetry.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  Notable for a white count of 9.4,
hematocrit of 34.6, platelets of 441.  Recent ESR of 97.
Chem-7 with a sodium of 128, potassium 4.4, chloride 87,
bicarb 30, BUN 19, creatinine 0.9, glucose 166, calcium 9.0,
magnesium 1.6.  CK of 92.  Troponin of 0.28.  Urinalysis was
otherwise negative.  Lactate of 1.2.  AST 28, ALT 23,
alkaline phosphatase 114, total bilirubin 0.4, lipase 14.

CT of the abdomen showed thickened walls of the colon,
sigmoid colon and rectum.  There was no free air or fluid,
positive gallstones, extensive vascular calcifications,
question of a small internal hernia.

Chest x-ray with mild CHF.

Echocardiogram with an EF of 30% with 2+ MR, anterior distal
septal, apical lateral, and inferior hypokinesis, akinesis,
mild pulmonary artery hypertension.

EKG initially was normal sinus rhythm at 55, new biphasic T's
in V1, T-wave inversions in V3 and V4, V5, I, and aVL, and
poor R-wave progression.  Repeat normal sinus rhythm at 61
with no acute changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 66-year-old woman with history of
CAD status post MI, status post CABG with peripheral vascular
disease and history of chronic diarrhea, who presents
hypotensive and hypoxemic.

1. Hypoxemia:  Patient's hypoxemia initially was attributed
to CHF exacerbation with fluid overload.  Recent decrease in
ejection fraction down to 30-35% per this echocardiogram.
From records from the [**Hospital1 756**] prior to CABG, she had an EF of
55%.  With this acute change in her ejection fraction with
her mitral regurgitation and elevated troponins and history
of coronary artery disease, patient was evaluated by
Cardiology and eventually taken for a cardiac
catheterization, where she had three stents placed from her
saphenous vein graft to her LAD.  Her coronary
catheterization showed severe three vessel disease and an
ejection fraction of 34%.

Patient tolerated the cardiac catheterization well.  Was
started on 18 hours of an Integrilin drip, tolerated that
well, and continued on aspirin, Plavix, and beta blocker
after catheterization.  Patient remained chest pain free
throughout the course of her stay, but did have severe
cardiac disease as evidenced on the catheterization.

Also related to her hypoxemia with her decreased ejection
fraction, the patient was in CHF.  Patient was diuresed
gently initially in the MICU after being fluid resuscitated
and patient was diuresed with Lasix to which she responded
well and was continued on that daily.  At time of discharge,
the patient was able to lie flat without orthopnea and was
not requiring oxygen.

Patient's hypoxemia could also be related to underlying COPD.
Patient did have evidence of hyperinflation on chest x-ray
and has a long smoking history, although this may not have
been previously diagnosed, patient probably has baseline
oxygen saturations around 94%.  Patient was otherwise stable
from a respiratory standpoint and did not complain of
shortness of breath or dyspnea on exertion.

Patient's history of COPD and recent increase in ischemic
cardiac disease were all likely contributing factors to
patient going into new AFib four days into her admission.
Patient had one episode of chest tightness and EKG at that
time showed patient was in AFib with a rate of 146.
Patient's rate was controlled with metoprolol and patient's
discomfort immediately improved.  Patient however, remained
in atrial fibrillation rhythm until she was d-c cardioverted
on [**1-16**].  Patient otherwise remained in sinus and was
rate controlled with metoprolol.  She was initially also
started on a Heparin drip, and then started on Coumadin after
procedures were done.  Patient's rhythm remains stable, and
patient was only continued on her beta blocker for her rhythm
and Coumadin.  Patient will likely have to continue Coumadin
initially for three weeks, but possibly life long which is
because of increased risk of atrial fibrillation.

Patient was also noted after cardioversion and after cardiac
catheterization to have episodes of NSVT going up to 12-13
beats.  These were all asymptomatic, however, the frequency
of these episodes were concerning, and patient was evaluated
by the Electrophysiology department and plans were made to
return in one month's time to have an Electrophysiology study
and likely placement of a defibrillator and AICD because of
concerns for ischemic cardiomyopathy with NSVT.  Patient was
agreeable to this and otherwise was not started on
antiarrhythmics at this time.  Patient will be on the monitor
after this placement and can be evaluated for number of
episodes of NSVT, and then can have adjustments of her
antiarrhythmic regim