Admission Date:  [**2173-10-15**]     Discharge Date:  [**2173-11-1**]


Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77-year-old gentleman
status post left lower lobe lung lobectomy who was
transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit team from the
Surgical Intensive Care Unit team on [**2173-10-30**] for
failure to wean off ventilation.

The patient is a 77-year-old gentleman with a history of
throat cancer who presented to [**Hospital1 188**] in [**2173-5-28**] for leg claudication and at that time
an admission chest x-ray showed right upper lobe and left
lower lobe lung masses.  At that time he had a right upper
lobe wedge resection and pleural biopsy which was negative
for malignancy on pathology, and he also had a negative bone
scan and head MRI for metastatic disease.

In [**Month (only) 216**] of this year he was admitted again for an
uncomplicated left femoral peroneal bypass surgery for his
leg claudication, and further workup at that time revealed a
left lower lobe 3-cm mass.  So, he was electively admitted on
[**2173-10-15**] for a left lower lobectomy.  He had no
immediate complications post surgery and was easily
extubated.  However, on postoperative day one he had an
episode of atrial fibrillation and hypotension, and he was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit.  A Swan-Ganz catheter
was placed with initial of right atrium 4, pulmonary artery
pressure of 38/14, cardiac output of 5.9, cardiac index
of 3.2, and systemic vascular resistance of 1038.  He was
aggressively volume resuscitated and then intubated for
progressive respiratory distress.  A Neo-Synephrine drip was
initiated.  He also had several bronchoscopies during this
admission which showed multiple mucous plugs and left upper
lobe collapse.  Sputum from the bronchoscopy grew Klebsiella
and Serratia which were pan sensitive, and he was started on
ciprofloxacin and ceftazidime.  He was briefly extubated
between [**10-21**] and [**10-22**]; however, he was
reintubated for respiratory distress on [**10-22**].  His
chest x-ray showed progressive bilateral multilobar pneumonia
versus acute respiratory distress syndrome.  Efforts at
weaning were limited by secretions, high oxygen requirement,
and increased respiratory rate if pressure support was
decreased, and he was requested to be transferred to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit for further management.


PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Throat cancer, status post radiation therapy complicated
by esophageal stricture requiring dilation.
2.  Bilateral leg claudication, status post left femoral
peroneal bypass in [**2173-7-28**].
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Hypothyroidism.
5.  Diverticulitis.
6.  Cervical spine fusion.
7.  Status post appendectomy.
8.  Status post colectomy secondary to diverticulitis.
9.  Bilateral carotid asymptomatic 60% stenosis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Ciprofloxacin 400 mg intravenous
q.12h., ceftazidime 2 g intravenously q.8h., Lopressor 5 mg
intravenously q.6h., nitroglycerin q.h.s., Neo-Synephrine
drip, procainamide drip, Ativan drip 2 mg per hour, morphine
drip 2 mg to 4 mg per hour, Haldol 1 q.2h., sliding-scale
regular insulin, Synthroid 0.1 mg intravenously q.d.,
Reglan 10 mg intravenously q.8h., albuterol/Atrovent
meter-dosed inhalers, Flovent 2 puffs b.i.d., Colace 100 mg
p.o. b.i.d., Dulcolax 1 p.r. q.d., and Nystatin
swish-and-swallow.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in [**State 2748**] with his
wife.  [**Name (NI) **] has two sons who are actively involved in his life.
He has a history of tobacco for 40 years and quit 20 years
ago.  He is an occasional alcohol drinker.  Prior to this
admission the patient was in a wheelchair with a decreased
quality of life that he was unhappy with.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs were
temperature maximum of 99.5, pulse of 92, blood pressure
between systolic 103 to 169 and diastolic 40 to 60.  In
general, on ventilation at AC with a tidal volume of 550,
respiratory rate of 20, FIO2 of 0.7, PEEP of 8; most recent
arterial blood gas 7.28/59/78.  Ins were 1841, outs 1535, net
positive 306.  Length of stay fluid balance -11.9 liters.  In
general, an elderly gentleman lying in bed, intubated and
sedated.  HEENT revealed pinpoint pupils, minimally reactive.
Neck was supple.  No jugular venous distention.
Cardiovascular revealed distant heart sounds, regular rate
and rhythm.  Normal S1 and S2.  Lungs revealed left lung with
coarse breath sounds, right upper quadrant coarse breath
sounds.  No wheezes.  Abdomen was soft, slightly distended,
very hypoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities were thin, muscle
wasting.  No edema.  Neurologically, intubated and sedated.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell
count 21.1, hematocrit 32.5, platelets 382.  Sodium 140,
potassium 3.9, chloride 107, bicarbonate 27, BUN 42,
creatinine 1.2, glucose 129, anion gap 10.  Calcium 8.1,
ionized calcium 1.18, phosphorous 2.7, magnesium 2.
Urinalysis was negative on [**10-27**].  Microbiology on
[**10-18**] bronch growing pan-sensitive Klebsiella and
Serratia.  On [**2173-10-24**], sputum growing oropharyngeal
flora.  On [**2173-10-27**], catheter tip growing
vancomycin-sensitive enterococcus.  Blood cultures negative
to date.  Urine cultures negative to date.  Pulmonary
function tests on [**2173-8-16**] revealed FEV1 of 1.34 (57%
of predicted), FEV1:FVC 106% of predicted, TLC 75% of
predicted, DSBVA 53% of predicted, BL/VA 85% of predicted;
with conclusion consistent with an interstitial process.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Chest x-ray on [**2173-9-29**] revealed
extensive left lung consolidation throughout, right upper
lobe consolidation, probable left lower lobe effusion.

Abdominal ultrasound on [**2173-10-21**] revealed biliary
sludge, no obstruction, fatty liver.

Most recent electrocardiogram on [**2173-10-25**] revealed
sinus at 90, normal axis, intervals 0.2/0.12/0.36, diffuse T
wave flattening in limb leads which were new compared to
preoperative electrocardiogram on [**2173-9-30**].  No acute
ST-T wave changes.

Echocardiogram stress in [**2173-5-28**] showed an ejection
fraction of 60% to 70%, no wall motion abnormalities, no
ischemia.

Left lower lobe pathology revealed squamous cell carcinoma
with no lymph node involvement.

IMPRESSION:  A 77-year-old gentleman status post left lower
lobectomy on postoperative day 15 with diffuse alveolar
infiltrates and consolidations suggestive of pneumonia
bilaterally; now with difficulty weaning from mechanical
ventilation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

 1.  PULMONARY:  The patient was status post left lower
lobectomy.   This fact, and his diffuse pneumonia would cause
a decrease in ventilation.  The patient was hypoxic on an
FIO2 of 5.55.  He also had a decreased compliance suggestive
of possible acute respiratory distress syndrome.  His
hypercarbia was secondary to poorly ventilated areas of his
lungs.  He was followed on arterial blood gas and was on
assist control ventilation while in the Medical Intensive
Care Unit.  He became progressively acidotic by his followed
arterial blood gas, and his set respiratory rate was
increased to compensate for his metabolic acidosis.  He was
continued on ciprofloxacin and ceftazidime for his
Serratia/Klebsiella pneumonia.  A repeat chest x-ray showed
continuation of diffuse alveolar infiltrations bilaterally,
left greater than right.  His metabolic acidosis was most
likely secondary to his progressive renal failure.

On the night of [**10-31**], he was started on a bicarbonate
drip given his worsening acidosis.  His lactate was 1.5.  It
was decided to increase his sedation by increasing the amount
of Ativan he was receiving and morphine he was receiving.  On
[**11-1**], his morphine was changed to Fentanyl.  With
increased sedation his arterial blood gas results remained
steady, and he seemed to be more in synchronization with the
ventilation.

 2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  (a)  RHYTHM:  His of atrial
fibrillation during this hospitalization with rapid
ventricular rate.  He was started on procainamide drip by the
surgical team; however, since postoperative day one he had
normal runs of atrial fibrillation and once he was
transferred to t