Admission Date: [**2192-11-8**]        Discharge Date: [**2192-11-13**]

Date of Birth:  [**2127-9-2**]        Sex:  F

Service:


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65 year old
female with a history of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia,
who presented initially with progressive exertional leg pain
and initially admitted for lower extremity angiogram and was
transferred to the CCU status post repair of femoral artery
puncture complications.

The patient has had complaints of pain in her legs during her
ADLs, especially climbing stairs for about 1 year. She
described the pain as burning in her thighs and aching in her
legs. No apparent tenderness was reported in her calves.
MRI/MRA done on admission showed atretic left kidney with 95%
stenosis of proximal renal artery and 95% stenosis origin of
right common iliac artery. MRI also revealed profound
stenosis of origin of left common iliac artery. She was
admitted on [**2192-11-8**], for lower extremity angiography
with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 911**]. In the cath lab, the patient had 95% renal
artery stenosis, 90% stenosis of right and left common iliac
artery and underwent stenting bilateral CIAs and right renal
artery which was complicated by a femoral bleed since the
patient was on heparin and a loading dose, was off Plavix.
The patient was taken to the OR on the same day for repair of
right groin site, given 2 liters of crystalloid, 2 units of
packed red blood cells. She had 400 cc of urine output with
an estimated blood loss of 50 cc. She came out of the OR
intubated, hemodynamically stable and sedated and was
transferred to the CCU.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to cephalosporins which
give her a rash, Effexor which gives her shaking and Norvasc
and tape.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin 81 mg, Lipitor 10 mg
daily, Lasix 20 mg daily, Actonel 35 mg on Saturdays,
metoprolol 50 mg b.i.d., lisinopril 40 daily, Vagifem 3 times
a week and Tylenol 325 mg for pain p.r.n.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Included hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, pneumonia, COPD, back pain, colonic
polyps, lichen planus.

REVIEW OF SYMPTOMS:  Negative except for the present
complaint described in the HPI.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother and father have COPD. Brother had
cardiac disease, status post stenting.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, temperature was 96.7,
heart rate was 66, respirations 20, blood pressure was
143/66. She was saturating 100% on AC, 550/16, 1.0, 0.5. In
general, she was a middle age female, flat lying in bed,
minimally responding after surgery, appears to be in pain.
Head and neck exam have slight oozing from right IJ site. She
has slight JVP. Her pupils were equal and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements were intact. The oropharynx was clear.
Carotid pulses were 2+, no bruits were auscultated. The lungs
were clear to auscultation bilaterally. There were some
crackles at the bases. Cardiovascular exam showed normal S1
and S2, regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.
The abdomen was soft. She had bowel sounds, nontender,
nondistended, no hepatosplenomegaly. She had bilateral groin
dressings with a pressure dressing over the right side. She
had diffuse ecchymosis at the groin sites. Lower extremity
pulse exam: Right 1+ DP, 1+ PT; left 1+ DP, 1+ PT. She had no
femoral bruits. Neurologically, she was sleeping from
sedation but responding appropriately, alert and oriented x3.

PROCEDURES PERFORMED:  Cardiac catheterization on [**2192-11-8**], by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 911**] where she underwent successful stenting of
bilateral common iliac arteries and successful stenting of
the right renal artery. This was complicated by right femoral
artery puncture repair. The right femoral artery laceration
was repaired on [**2192-11-9**], by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] when the
following procedure was performed: Exploration of the right
groin, evacuation of right groin hematoma, phlebectomy of
external iliac artery and suture repair of femoral artery
with 6.0 Prolene. Excerpt from the operative report by Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] during the cardiac catheterization, the patient
developed profuse hemorrhage from the right femoral artery.
Hemorrhaging was controlled with direct pressure, however,
the bleeding continued and vascular surgery was consulted and
the patient was taken urgently to the operating room. The
repair was conducted successfully. The patient had an
estimated 50 cc blood loss, was transfused 2 units of packed
red blood cells and given 2 liters of crystalloid in the OR.
Postoperatively, the patient was transferred to PACU and then
to the CCU per request of Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 911**].

Electrocardiogram performed on [**2192-11-8**], showed sinus
bradycardia. She had nondiagnostic ST-T waves and Q waves and
early R wave progression, prominent T waves in leads V1
through V2 which suggested possible old inferior and
posterior myocardial infarction. No previous tracing was
available for comparison.

BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE:  A 65 year old female with a history
of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and smoking who
presented initially with progressive exertional leg pain,
admitted for lower extremity angiography by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]
transferred to the CCU status post surgical repair femoral
artery puncture by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].

Puncture repair: The patient was monitored in the CCU
overnight. Her right lower extremity pulses were intact. She
had some hemodynamic instability with mean arterial pressures
of 55 to 60 overnight with wide pulse pressure, presumably
due to noncompliant vessels which was corrected with fluid
boluses. Hematocrit dropped from 32 to 29 but she received a
lot of fluids so the drop in hematocrit was attributed to
dilution and no transfusion was done. She was given some
Dilaudid for pain control which resulted in some nausea which
was controlled with antiemetics. The patient's groin hematoma
was stable. Vascular surgery continued to follow the patient.
Recommended transfusion of the patient for a hematocrit below
26, pain control and monitoring the groin site. The patient
was called out to the floor after 1 day of CCU monitoring
where vascular surgery continued to follow. Initially the
patient's hematocrit stayed stable around 30 and she has been
getting out of bed with physical therapy. Pain control has
been good. On [**2192-11-11**], the patient's hematocrit fell
to 26. Even though she got fluids, this was attributed to be
a hematocrit drop and she was transfused 1 unit of packed red
blood cells. She bumped appropriately. We considered CT of
abdomen and ultrasound if the hematocrit continues to fall
but stayed stable around 30 so no further imaging was
supposed to be necessary. The patient continued to experience
pain across the medial right thigh. She was controlled with
opiates. The hematoma remained stable during her hospital
course with palpable DPs and PTs. At this point, vascular
surgery has signed off and had no further recommendations.
Hematocrit was stable at 31 to 33. The patient was discharged
home with follow-up arranged with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 911**].

Status post stenting: The patient underwent successful
stenting of bilateral common iliac arteries and right renal
artery by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 919**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 911**] on [**2192-11-8**]. She was placed
on aspirin and Plavix and heparin. Heparin was discontinued
prior to discharge. The patient was discharged on aspirin and
Plavix.

Hypertension: The patient's home regimen including metoprolol
and lisinopril. Except for the postoperative period, the
patient's blood pressure continued to be elevated and ranged
from 120 to 198/74 to 78. Her metoprolol was increased to 75
b.i.d. and the lisinopril will stay at 40 daily. The patient
was discharged on lisinopril 40 daily, metoprolol 75 b.i.d.

Chronic renal insufficiency: She was admitted with a
creatinine of 2.7 which improved with fluids. She was
discharged with a creatinine of 1.4 which is close to her
baseline.

Hypercholesterolemia: The patient was maintained on her
outpatient dose of atorvastatin of 10 mg 1 tab p.o. daily.

Access: Triple lumen was discont