Admission Date:  [**2116-8-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2116-10-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2053-12-21**]       Sex:  M

Service:  HEPATOBILIARY SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is well known to the
Hepatobiliary Surgery Service of Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].
He recently underwent a Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy for
Mirizzi syndrome and bile duct stricture.  He subsequently
was discharged to home.

At home prior to this admission, he had passed some tarry
stool, had some bloody vomitus and syncope.  This developed
into a very severe upper GI bleed, requiring admission with
aggressive volume resuscitation, aggressive administration of
blood products, including more than 40 U of packed red blood
cells, along with multiple units of fresh frozen plasma,
cryoprecipitate and platelets.

He was scoped by the Gastroenterologist on [**8-24**] for the
first time during this hospitalization in which they noted an
ulcer on the gastric side of the GE junction with some
bleeding but was minimal.

On the following day as he was watched in the Intensive Care
Unit, this blossomed to ongoing hemorrhage, and on [**8-25**],
they noted possibly some esophageal varices; however, with
such a significant amount of blood, they could not really
make a very good study out of it, and they placed [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]
tube for all of the active bleeding.

Three days later, he had another endoscopy which did not show
any active bleeding but showed blood in the fundus.  At the
same time, as the ongoing volume resuscitation and blood
product resuscitation continued, he was noted to have a
significant amount of portal hypertension and TIPS on [**2116-8-25**].  In addition on the same day, an Interventional
Radiology angiogram was performed, and coiling of a right
hepatic artery, posterior branch, pseudoaneurysm, as well as
coiling of the left gastric artery, which was done on [**2116-9-1**].

The patient had very complicated Intensive Care Unit and
hospital stay.

Neurologic:  The patient was intubated, and upon being
awakened from the vent after a significant amount of time, he
was noted to be not following commands had a change in mental
status.

As a Neurology consult was obtained, CT of his head was
obtained, and there was no organic intracranial reason to
have these symptoms which were attributed just to the trauma
and insult that he had been through, as well as the hepatic
encephalopathy.

He was treated with Lactulose through an NG tube in an effort
to clear off the encephalopathy which was successful, and he
was gradually weaned off.

Pulmonary:  The patient had a required ventilatory
dependence; however, he was successfully weaned and extubated
from the ventilator.  He has no sequelae from this long-term
ventilation.

Cardiovascular:  The patient was in hemodynamic hemorrhagic
shock with significant blood loss anemia.  Once
resuscitation was completed, he was resumed on beta-blockers.


On [**10-6**], the patient had a cardiac echocardiogram
which had an ejection fraction estimated at 40-45%, moderate
dilation of the left atrium, with trivial mitral
regurgitation.  The left ventricular cavity was also mildly
dilated and somewhat depressed in its systolic function, and
they noted posterior and akinesis and distal septal
hypokinesis.

Gastrointestinal:  In addition to the already discussed above
facts regarding his history of Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy
and various Interventional Radiology procedures, after the
coilings of the right hepatic artery pseudoaneurysm and the
left gastri artery, there was no further note of new onset GI
bleeding.  His hematocrit stabilized, and gradually the
patient was started on tube feedings, and he was continued on
TPN.

The tube feedings were done via a nasojejunal tube which was
placed at endoscopy on [**9-14**].  This was the only way he
could maintain his calories, given his changes in mental
status around this event and obviously the prolonged
resuscitation and ventilation in the Intensive Care Unit.

The patient had percutaneous transhepatic cholangial tubes,
both in the left and right sides.  These were eventually
capped.  He had hyperbilirubinemia, which did eventually
trend downward.  He had hypoalbuminemia which continues, and
at the very least is trending in the proper direction.

On [**2116-9-28**], the patient had an ultrasound which
showed patency of the TIPS and no further hematemesis.  He
did have some guaiac positive stools but gradually developed
guaiac negative stools.

At one point, his nasoduodenal tube was pulled out, and he
was able to achieve his goal calories and protein with a lot
of encouragement and education, and currently is being
sustained solely on his own p.o. intake.

GU:  During the process of the hypovolemic shock, the patient
went into acute renal failure.  This gradually  returned to
baseline function with an excellent urine output on his own.
In trying to get all of the volume off him, he was being
diuresed with Lasix and Spironolactone; however, after he was
returning very close to his normal baseline body weight,
these were discontinued.

In the process of numerous volume shifts that the patient
experienced, he experienced some hyponatremia, and this
improved with minimizing the amount of free-water ingested,
educating him, as well as adjusting TPN when he was being
given TPN.

Infectious disease:  The patient had multiple intravenous
lines which carried him through the resuscitation in the
Intensive Care Unit.  His positive cultures were that of MRSA
in sputum, and he was diagnosed with a MRSA pneumonia and had
an adequate treatment with Vancomycin.

He also had cultures from bile, some of which grew out
bacteria, including MRSA, VRE, VSE, those last two being
Vancomycin resistant Enterococcus and Vancomycin sensitive
Enterococcus.

After the patient was finished with antibiotics and was
transferred to the floor finally, he was doing well and then
developed high fever, and of his lines were removed at that
time, and he was started on Vancomycin.  However, given that
he had previous problems with Vancomycin resistant
Enterococcus, he was started on intravenous Linezolid and
transitioned to p.o. Linezolid.  He has currently been
afebrile for quite some time.

Hematologic:  He remains anemia but without a lot of changes
in his hematocrit.  He is being treated with Folate and a
healthy diet to try to improve his bone marrow stores of
vitamins and favor hematopoiesis.

He has accumulated or formulated a significant amount of
antibodies from the multiple blood transfusions, and our
pathology and blood bank has made it quite clear that he is
very difficult to cross-match for blood transfusions.

Endocrine:  He has had some Insulin requirements during the
hospitalization.  He is not on his oral hypoglycemics.  He
has been having his blood sugars checked regularly.  At this
point, he will go home and need to contact his primary care
physician to decide on his outpatient regimen.  He is not
requiring Insulin regularly on the regular diet.  He had been
requiring Insulin when he was on TPN, but since then, this is
just an intermittent blood sugar requirement, in association
with frequent blood sugar checks.

He knows, as on his discharge summary, to document three
times a day his fingersticks and to give them to his primary
care physician upon their [**Name9 (PRE) 702**] visit.  He is not going
home on Insulin, and he is not going home on oral agents.

Musculoskeletal:  He has suffered a severe amount of diffuse
atrophy of his muscles and has required aggressive physical
therapy and assistance with ADLs, with which he is gradually
improving on and doing significantly better; however, he will
require physical therapy as an outpatient.

DISPOSITION:  Home with VNA services for tube checks,
cardiopulmonary checks and wound checks.  Home physical
therapy.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease status post
coronary artery stents.  Diabetes mellitus type II.
Hypertension.  Common bile duct strictures.  Chronic renal
failure.  Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy as explained above.
T12 compression fracture.  Ascites.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS