Admission Date:  [**2143-8-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2143-8-8**]


Service:  Medical Intensive Care Unit

CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient was transferred from [**Hospital **]
Rehabilitation Facility to [**Hospital6 2018**] Intensive Care Unit for removal of tracheal
granulation tissue and revision of her tracheostomy tube.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84 year old
woman with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
myocardial infarction, the last one being [**2143-3-9**].
Hospital hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, atrial
fibrillation, respiratory failure, status post tracheostomy
tube placed on [**2143-4-25**] who presents for removal of her
tracheal granulation tissue and revision of her tracheostomy
tube.  She was admitted originally at an outside hospital in
[**2143-3-9**] with respiratory failure, secondary to myocardial
infarction and was intubated at that time.  Her hospital
course was complicated by congestive heart failure, bilateral
pleural effusions, status post left pleurodesis, atrial
fibrillation, gastrointestinal bleed and
ventilator-associated pneumonia.  In [**2143-5-9**], the patient
had parotiditis which was treated with Unasyn initially and
blood cultures became positive for Methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus and the patient's antibiotics were
switched to Vancomycin.  Recently, the patient has been
having some frank blood with tracheal suctioning and the
patient underwent bronchoscopy revealing a granulation tissue
tumor at the distal end of the tracheostomy tube which
prompted transfer to our facility for further management.
The patient most recently has been ventilator settings of
assist control, title volumes of 450, rate of 10, FIO2 of 30%
and positive end-expiratory pressure of 5 with trials of
pressure support ventilation of 15 for six to 8 hours a day.
On arrival to our facility the patient denied chest pain,
shortness of breath, abdominal pain, fever, chills,
lightheadedness.  She was alert and oriented times two and we
were communicating the patient via her daughter and a
translator as she is [**Name (NI) 46396**] only.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease, status
post multiple myocardial infarctions, most recent being
[**2143-3-9**].  2.  Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy,
echocardiogram in [**2143-2-9**] showed an ejection fraction
of 75%, 1 to 2+ mitral regurgitation and 3+ tricuspid
regurgitation.  3.  Hypertension.  4.  Status post pacemaker.
5.  History of atrial fibrillation, status post DC
cardioversion in [**2143-3-9**].  6.  Gastric ulcer/gastritis.
7.  Status post cholecystectomy.  8.  History of
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia.

TRANSFER MEDICATIONS:  Spironolactone 25 mg q.d., Verapamil
80 mg t.i.d., Lasix 40 mg q.d., Colace Sertraline 50 mg q.d.,
Amiodarone 200 mg q.d., Metoprolol 25 mg t.i.d., Iron Sulfate
300 mg b.i.d., Erythropoietin 40,000 units q. week,
multivitamin, Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers prn.

ALLERGIES:  Colchicine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in a nursing home, Chinese
speaking only and denies tobacco or alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Otherwise negative.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On arrival here physical examination
revealed vital signs with temperature 101.6, blood pressure
177/90, pulse 71, respirations 25.  General:  Awake and
alert, appears comfortable.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils equal, round and
reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Mucous
membranes were slightly dry.  Neck:  No lymphadenopathy or
edema, supple.  Tracheostomy site intact and not
erythematous.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm,
III/VI holosystolic murmur, loudest at the apex.  Pulmonary:
Diffuse expiratory rhonchi with wheezes bilaterally.
Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel
sounds.  Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy site, in left
upper quadrant with slight white discoloration but
nonerythematous and nontender.  Extremities:  1+ bilateral
lower extremity edema.  Neurological:  Alert and oriented
times two to three.  Moves all four extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cells 13.1 with 84%
neutrophils, hematocrit 31.9, platelets 206, sodium 138,
potassium 4.3, chloride 97, bicarbonate 33, BUN 49,
creatinine 0.9, glucose 111, calcium 9.5, phosphorus 3.6,
magnesium 2.0, ALT 40, AST 28, alkaline phosphatase 261,
total bilirubin 0.5, PT 12.8, PTT 24.7, INR 1.1.  Arterial
blood gases on pressure support of 15 were pH 7.38, pCO2 61,
pO2 106.  Electrocardiogram, atrially paced rate of 74,
narrow complex QRS, no acute ST or T wave abnormalities,
essentially unchanged from previous electrocardiogram.  Chest
x-ray, mild perihilar fullness followed by bilateral pleural
effusion consistent with mild pulmonary edema.  Urinalysis
was significant for 20 to 50 red blood cells, 6 to 10 white
blood cells, positive nitrates and 1+ leukocyte esterase.
Urine, blood and sputum cultures were sent.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  An 84 year old female with a history of
coronary artery disease, hypertrophic obstructive
cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation, pleural effusion,
hypertension, presenting for tracheostomy tube revision and
removal of granulation tissue.

1.  Respiratory failure - The patient was initially put on
assist-controlled ventilation but was changed to CPAP with
pressure support with 5 of positive end-expiratory pressure
and 5 of pressure support.  The patient did well on these
settings, maintaining oxygen saturations of 99 to 100% with
respiratory rate ranging from 22 to 24.  The patient was
alternated between short trials of tracheal mask which she
became uncomfortable and diaphoretic but maintained
saturations and alternated between that and the previously
described pressure support settings.  A rigid bronchoscopy
was performed on [**8-7**], which was significant for 4 cm of
tracheomalacia which was obstructing her airway during the
respiratory cycle.  The old tracheostomy tube was removed and
a longer tracheostomy tube was placed.  Follow up chest x-ray
showed the tracheostomy tube in good position.  No
granulation tissue or granuloma was observed at the distal
end of the trachea and no source of active bleeding was
visualized.  The patient should be able to proceed with
weaning from the ventilator with trials of face mask as
tolerated.

2.  Fever - The patient was febrile on admission with a
slightly elevated white blood cell count.  The urinalysis was
suggestive of urinary tract infection and the patient was
started on Levofloxacin.  Additionally, the patient had
significant amount of purulent tracheal secretions which on
gram stain showed large amount of polymorphonuclears and 3+
gram negative rods.  Blood, urine and sputum cultures were
sent and are pending.  Chest x-ray shows no evidence of
pneumonia.  The patient should continue to complete a seven
day course of Levofloxacin for probable tracheobronchitis and
possible urinary tract infection.  The patient's fever
resolved and the white count began to trend down during the
two days of admission here.

3.  Hypertension - The patient had been on Metoprolol 25 mg
t.i.d.  The blood pressures here were running 140s to
150s/60s to 70s.  The patient's dose of Metoprolol was
increased gradually to 50 mg t.i.d. with improved control of
her blood pressure.

4.  Congestive heart failure - The patient was felt to have
mild pulmonary edema on her admission chest x-ray.  The
patient received an additional 40 mg of Lasix in addition to
her regular dose and for additional diuresis.  The patient
will likely need additional diuresis as she is weaned from
her positive pressure ventilations.

5.  Gastrointestinal - The patient has a history of gastric
ulcers and gastritis.  We have continued her proton pump
inhibitor and the patient is planned for outpatient
esophagogastroduodenoscopy as follow up.

6.  Heme - The patient has a macrocytic anemia.  Iron
studies, B12 and Folate were sent and are consistent with
persistent with iron deficiency anemia.  The patient's dose
of iron was increased from twice a day to three times a day.

7.  Fluids, electrolytes and nutri