Admission Date:  [**2186-2-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2186-2-24**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:

Service:  SURGICAL

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 76-year-old
male with a remote history of ulcerative colitis which has
not been active for about three years when he was on
medication.  The patient was followed by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 94995**].

The patient developed dull abdominal pain about seven days,
mostly over the lower abdomen.  The pain had been
progressively increasing in intensity, nonradiating.  He
denied fever but had chills yesterday.  No nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, bright red blood per rectum, or dysuria.  Normal
bowel movements.

The pain increased on the night of admission, and he came for
evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension.  Hypercholesterolemia.
History of depression.  Coronary artery disease.  Status post
catheterization in [**2182**] which showed mild left anterior
descending disease, diffusely, ejection fraction of 45%.
History of ulcerative colitis.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Atenolol 50 mg q.d.,
................. 10 mg q.d., Imdur 30 mg q.d., Lipitor 20 mg
q.d., Lisinopril 40 mg q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married, and he lives with
his wife and two children.  No tobacco or alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature 99.9??????, pulse
85, blood pressure 173/100, respirations 16, oxygen
saturation 94%.  General:  The patient was in no acute
distress.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Sclera
anicteric.  Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  No murmurs.
Normal S1 and S2.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen:  Obese, distended, tender diffusely to palpation,
but mostly over the lower abdomen, right greater than left.
Positive guarding and rebound.  Rectal:  Normal tone.  Guaiac
negative.  Extremities:  Exam showed 2+ dorsalis pedis and
posterior tibial pulses bilaterally.  Neurological:  Grossly
intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 10.6, otherwise CBC and
electrolytes, and LFTs were normal, as well as amylase and
lipase.

Abdominal CT was performed showing an inflamed appendix and
an incidental 5.6 x 6.6 cm abdominal aortic aneurysm.  No
free air was noted.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to Dr.[**Name (NI) 20848**]
surgical service. The patient was left NPO and on intravenous
fluids and started on intravenous antibiotics.

He was taken on [**2186-2-6**], to the Operating Room where
a laparoscopic appendectomy was performed.  Postoperatively
the patient did not arouse well and was therefore sent to the
PACU intubated.

The patient was placed on TP while on the PACU but became
stridoress and had a decreased oxygen saturation and was
therefore revented for respiratory control.  The patient did
have an increase in oxygen saturation and more comfort in
breathing.  His was resedated on Propofol to prevent him from
biting on the endotracheal tube.

Cardiac enzymes were sent to rule out myocardial infarction.
They did turn out to be negative.

The patient was on Levaquin and Flagyl immediately
postoperatively.  On postoperative day #1, the patient was
weaned and extubated in the Intensive Care Unit.

The patient completed his myocardial infarction rule-out
protocol.

Over the next couple of days, the patient began to become
agitated and have respiratory difficulty.  He was given Lasix
in the hopes that it was caused by fluid overload.  However,
on the afternoon of the 21st, his mental status was so bad
that the patient was moved back to the Intensive Care Unit
for close monitoring and possible intubation, as well as
treatment for delirium tremens.

Multiple agents were used to control the patient's agitation,
including Ativan, Haldol, and Clonidine patch.  The patient
also experienced extreme high blood pressure and a number of
agents were used to control this, including Lopressor and
Nitroglycerin.

The patient was reintubated on the 24th as his agitation
peaked, and his respiratory distress had peaked with
inability to oxygenate him.

Over the course of the next several days, the patient was
repeatedly tried to be weaned from his ventilator but was
unsuccessful.  He also continued to spike temperatures daily.
Multiple cultures were sent, and he did have gram-positive
cocci in his blood cultures, as well as yeast in his sputum.
He remained on a number of agents including Vancomycin,
Levaquin, Flagyl, and Fluconazole.

A CT was performed to evaluate for possible intra-abdominal
causes of the persistent fever.  A right subdiaphragmatic
collection was found and was eventually drained.  However,
the patient continued to spike fevers and persistently failed
extubation attempts.

He was finally started on TPN, as the patient had not been
getting any nutrition.  This was performed on [**2-17**].  On
that same day, an extensive rash appeared on his body,
believed to be consistent with a drug rash.  All of his
antibiotics were therefore discontinued.

Further sputum samples revealed persistent positive
gram-positive cocci.  The patient was started on Linezolid.

Over the course of the next few days, the patient did not
make much progress, and it was decided that the patient would
eventually need tracheostomy and PEG tube placement.  This
was discussed with the family, and at that time, it was
decided in conjunction with the family, that the patient
would be transferred over to the Medical Intensive Care Unit
under the direction and care of the Medical Intensive Care
Unit attending.  Transfer occurred on [**2186-2-25**].




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3799**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3800**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 12487**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2186-2-27**]  12:53
T:  [**2186-2-27**]  13:03
JOB#:  [**Job Number 94996**]
