Admission Date:  [**2102-10-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2102-10-31**]

Date of Birth:   [**2027-9-7**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery

This is a 75-year-old woman with a history of several years
of dyspnea on exertion, who had been complaining of weight
gain and worsening lower extremity edema and decreased
energy.  An echocardiogram done [**2101-7-1**] revealed an
ejection fraction of 60% and [**2-1**]+ MR and 1+ A.I.  An exercise
stress test on [**2102-8-31**] had to stop at 6.5 minutes due
to a 20 mm drop in her systolic blood pressure.  She had no
chest discomfort at that time, and she was referred then for
cardiac catheterization.

She has a past medical history significant for hypertension,
breast cancer, status post lumpectomy and radiation therapy
7-8 years ago, neuropathy of feet, thyroid surgery, and a
hysterectomy.

She has drug allergies to Compazine and penicillin.

Her preoperative medications are Toprol 25 mg po q day,
Norvasc 10 mg po q day, Synthroid 112 mcg q day, furosemide
80 mg po q day, Premarin 0.625 mcg q day, Prozac 20 mg po q
day, and Avapro 300 mg po q day.

Her date of admission was [**2102-10-3**] and her date of
discharge is [**2102-10-31**].

Cardiac catheterization was performed [**9-12**] which
revealed an ejection fraction of 70%, normal left ventricular
function, left main of 30%, 60% disease and 80% disease of
the proximal and mid circumflex and 20% disease of the OM.

Per Anesthesia record, this patient underwent coronary artery
bypass grafting x5 with a left internal mammary artery to the
diagonal and left anterior descending sequential saphenous
vein graft to the right coronary artery and saphenous vein
graft to the ramus intermedius and obtuse marginal sequential
as well as a mitral valve annuloplasty ring with a 26 mm
[**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor Last Name **].

The patient was transferred to the Cardiosurgery Recovery
Unit on 0.5 mcg of phenylephrine and 30 mcg of propofol in
stable condition on [**2102-10-3**].

On postoperative day one, patient with a low-grade fever of
100.  Otherwise her vital signs were stable with an output of
4.4, an index of 2.32.  Still intubated with a white count of
15.1, hematocrit of 28.4, and platelets of 139,000.  Sodium
140, potassium 5.2, BUN 35, creatinine 1.6, and glucose of
136.  On physical exam, the patient was following commands.
Examination otherwise unremarkable.  Plan was to try to wean,
to extubate, and to begin Lasix.

On postoperative day two, the patient was afebrile.  The
patient was extubated the day prior.  On [**10-4**], the
patient's white count is 14, hematocrit is down to 23.9 with
platelets of 118.  Sodium 140, potassium 4.2, BUN 39,
creatinine 1.7.  On physical exam, the patient was awake and
following commands with the rest of the examination
unremarkable.

On postoperative day two, patient went into rapid atrial
fibrillation for which the patient was administered
intravenous Lopressor which brought the heart rate down to
70s-80 however, still in atrial fibrillation.  The patient's
po Lopressor was increased to 25 mg po bid, and the patient
was somewhat confused as well.

Postoperative day three, patient remained afebrile in sinus
rhythm at 86.  Physical exam was benign and the plan was just
to continue to observe patient for atrial fibrillation.
Later on that evening of postoperative day three, the patient
was alert, however, confused and yelling out to the nurses.
Haldol was administered, which calmed the patient down.

Postoperative day four, the patient remained afebrile.  Heart
rate 90 in atrial fibrillation.  Examination was benign aside
from the irregular heart beat.  Amiodarone was administered
400 mg po tid.

Postoperative day five, the patient was still in atrial
fibrillation after her amiodarone, and she was started on
Heparin because of complaints of shortness of breath.
Patient's physical exam was benign, and the plan was just to
check the patient's PTT because of her Heparin and to
possibly increase the Lasix for her shortness of breath.

Postoperative day five, the patient was still in atrial
fibrillation on amiodarone.  Heparin was still being
administered at 1100 units/hour as well as Coumadin.  Vital
signs:  The patient's heart rate was 75 in atrial
fibrillation, otherwise hemodynamically stable.  On physical
exam she had decreased breath sounds on the left side and the
chest x-ray showed a left pleural effusion for which 20 mg of
Lasix were given intravenously.  Overall the patient was
doing well with mental status improving.

Postoperative day six, the patient remained afebrile in sinus
rhythm at 70 beats per minute.  Otherwise hemodynamically
stable.  At physical exam she had crackles at the bases for
which she was administered Lasix.

Cardiology saw the patient who recognized that the patient's
last hematocrit was 25, and recommended that the patient
might benefit transfusing [**2-1**] units before she is discharged
and an echocardiogram to confirm that there is no pericardial
effusion.

On postoperative day seven, Cardiac Surgery was called to see
the patient for a low temperature of 93.4 and diaphoresis.
On physical exam, the patient was unresponsive with a pulse
of 58.  A code was called.  The patient was intubated.  CPR
was done and the patient's rhythm became sinus tachycardic at
105.  Epinephrine and Morphine was administered.  An
electrocardiogram was done.  A left femoral CV line was
placed and a patient was transferred to the Cath Laboratory.

The patient was seen by the EP service, who felt that the
cause for the sinus arrest may possibly have been related to
the amiodarone or more likely an underlying sepsis or
metabolic disarray.  So cardiac catheterization revealed
patent graft and the echocardiogram revealed by report,
circumferential pericardial effusion with clot.  However, no
tamponade and preserved or nearly preserved left ventricular
function.  The plan was to place a temporary screw in the
pacemaker to guard against future sinus arrests while workup
of the underlying cause is performed.  On [**10-11**], the
temporary pacemaker was inserted.

The patient became progressively hypotensive during the
procedure requiring increased amounts of dopamine and
Neo-Synephrine.  The heart borders were without change.
Estimated blood loss was around 300 cc with very high right
pressures and minimal urine output during the case.  They
recommended to recheck the hematocrit and transfuse 2 units
of packed red blood cells, recheck the echocardiogram if the
patient still required high level pressors, to check blood
cultures, and to give one dose of Vancomycin for the
pacemaker.  They also recommended to hold the amiodarone, and
Coumadin, and to get a chest x-ray on arrival to the unit.

The patient was then transferred to the CCU following the
cardiac catheterization laboratory on dopamine and
Neo-Synephrine with an intra-aortic balloon pump in place as
well as a RV pacer wire in place.  Patient was in metabolic
acidosis, which was treated by bicarb, which improved her
acidosis.  She still had an elevated white blood count, and
received Vancomycin, Flagyl, and Levo.  That night blood
cultures were sent.  Her urine output was low with a
creatinine of 3 and rising, and on physical exam she was
following commands, was able to answer questions by nodding.

Postoperative day eight, the patient was afebrile on
Vancomycin, Levo, and Flagyl, as well as milrinone, dopamine,
Heparin with an output of 3.4 and index of 1.79.
Hemodynamically stable in sinus rhythm at 93 with an
intra-aortic balloon pump at 1:1.  White count 27.5,
hematocrit of 25.3 with a platelet count of 139.  Physical
exam was benign.  Patient was sedated.  Plan was to try to
wean the pressure support, and to try to evaluate the
etiology of the high liver function tests as well as the
renal failure for which a renal consult will be made.

Cardiology came by to see the patient at which time they
recommended to increase the patient's milrinone, decrease the
vasopressin, to re-echo the patient and to get an ultrasound
of the abdomen.  A critical care consult was called on the
patient and they consulted the patient on [**10-12**].
They