Admission Date: [**2162-6-2**]        Discharge Date: [**2162-6-4**]

Date of Birth:  [**2096-2-23**]        Sex:  F

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Patient with known peripheral vascular
disease and bilateral claudication who is admitted
postoperatively for continued postoperative care.

HISTORY:  ABIs done on [**2161-7-28**] demonstrate on the
right 0.48, on the left 0.44. Patient with severe bilateral
possibly tandem aortoiliac inflow popliteal and distal runoff
atherosclerotic disease.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Benicar 40 mg daily, atenolol 25
mg daily, Caduet 5/80 mg capsule daily, aspirin 325 mg daily,
Spiriva puffs 2 q.a.m.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for non-ST-endocardial
myocardial infarction, status post CABG on [**2161-4-27**]: A
LIMA to the LAD, saphenous vein graft to the obtuse
marginal/diagonal was not grafted. Most recent ETT in
[**2161-10-27**] showed a small fixed apical perfusion defect
with an ejection fraction of 56% with septal hypokinesis.
Other medical problems include cardiomyopathy,
hyperlipidemia, peripheral vascular disease, postoperative
atrial fibrillation, history of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia, history of carotid disease by ultrasound,
history of COPD, history of recurrent pneumonia, former
smoker, type 2 diabetes.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Right 2nd toe amputation 20 years
ago.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient is married who lives with 4 living
children, 1 deceased. Husband and daughter will accompany
patient to procedure.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Negative.

PHYSICAL EXAM:  General appearance is well, but anxious
female. Heart is a regular rate and rhythm with a normal S1
and 2. Lungs are clear to auscultation. Abdominal exam is
unremarkable. Neurological exam is intact.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was admitted to the preoperative
holding area. On [**2162-6-2**], she underwent bilateral
femoral endarterectomies with Bovine patch angioplasties,
bilateral common iliac stenting, external iliac stenting.
Patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to
the PACU for continued monitoring and care. Patient was
transfused 2 units of packed red blood cells
intraoperatively.

Postoperatively, patient remained hemodynamically stable,
continued to do well, and was transferred to the VICU for
continued monitoring and care. Electrolytes were repleted. On
postoperative day 1, there were no overnight events. She
remained hemodynamically stable. Exam remained unchanged. Her
diet was advanced as tolerated. Ambulation was instituted,
and the patient was transferred to the regular nursing floor.
Patient was followed postoperatively by her cardiologist, Dr.
[**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 919**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 911**]. Patient did well from a cardiac standpoint. The
remaining hospital course was unremarkable, and patient was
discharged on postoperative day 2 in stable condition to
home.

Wounds were clean, dry, and intact. She had palpable pulses.
Patient would be discharged on preadmission medications and
additional Plavix 75 mg for total of 1 month, aspirin 325 mg
indefinitely.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Arterial insufficiency with bilateral
buttocks claudication, history of coronary artery disease
with history of myocardial infarction, status post coronary
artery bypass graft, left internal mammary artery to the left
anterior descending artery, saphenous vein graft to obtuse
marginal, history of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia,
history of atrial fibrillation, history of
hypercholesterolemia, history of congestive heart failure,
history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with
recurrent pneumonia, history of smoking, new pulmonary nodule
on admitting x-ray on [**2162-5-27**].

FOLLOW UP:  Recommended followup with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in 2 weeks'
time. She should call his office for an appointment.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Olmesartan 40 mg daily, atenolol 25
mg daily, Caduet 5/80 mg tablets daily, aspirin 325 mg daily,
tiotropium bromide inhaled device daily, Plavix 75 mg daily.

MAJOR INVASIVE PROCEDURES:  Bilateral femoral
endarterectomies with common iliac and external iliac
stenting and Bovine patches to the femoral arteries.

Patient's primary care physician will be notified of new
chest x-ray findings and the need for the patient to undergo
an outpatient CT followup.



                        [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D. [**MD Number(1) 3186**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2382**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2162-6-4**] 10:12:19
T:  [**2162-6-4**] 10:46:29
Job#:  [**Job Number 61514**]
