Admission Date:  [**2166-9-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2166-9-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2099-9-12**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICAL ICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 67 year-old man
with a history of metastatic gastric carcinoma who was
recently started on hospice care and then presented to the
[**Hospital1 69**] Emergency Department on
[**2166-9-7**] with severe left hip pain and inability to
ambulate. The onset of these symptoms were precipitated by a
fall from a chair four hours prior to admission.  While in
the Emergency Department the patient continued to complain of
excruciating pain.  An x-ray of his left hip demonstrated a
left femoral neck fracture with displacement.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Metastatic gastric carcinoma
diagnosed approximately one year ago.  2.  Status post
partial gastrectomy.  3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.  4.  History of deep venous thrombosis.  5.  History
of coronary artery disease.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin and aspirin.

MEDICATIONS:  1.  Fentanyl patch 50 micrograms transdermal q
72 hours.  2.  Hydromorphone 4 mg po prn pain.  3.
Pantoprazole 40 mg po q.d.  4.  Metoclopramide 10 mg po prn
nausea.  5.  Warfarin 2 mg po q.h.s.  6.  Diltiazem 60 mg po
q.i.d.  7.  Compazine 5 to 10 mg po q 6 hours prn.  8.
Cosopt eye drops one drop to each eye q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies current alcohol or
tobacco use, although he reportedly has a significant smoking
history.  He is married and he lives at home with his wife.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient's temperature was 99.8
degrees.  Blood pressure 128/54.  Heart rate 91.
Respirations 20.  Oxygen saturation 97% on 6 liters face
mask.  In general, the patient was calm, however, he was
clearly short of breath and in obvious pain.  On HEENT
examination his pupils were equally round and reactive to
light and accommodation.  His extraocular movements intact.
His oral mucosa were dry.  His neck was supple.  There was no
JVD.  No carotid bruits.  No adenopathy.  His heart was a
regular rate and rhythm.  There was normal S1 and S2 heart
sounds and there were no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  He had
decreased breath sounds at the bases with mild crackles and
wheezes bilaterally.  His abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended.  There were active bowel sounds and there was
no palpable hepatosplenomegaly.  Neurological examination he
was alert and oriented times three.  He had decreased
strength in his left lower extremity, because of pain, and
his sensory examination was grossly intact.  He had no
peripheral edema and he had 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses
bilaterally.

INITIAL LABORATORY EVALUATION:  The patient's white blood
cell was 16, hematocrit 20.2, platelets 739.  His PT was
13.7, PTT 28.6 and INR 1.3.  Initial serum chemistries
demonstrated a sodium of 129, potassium 4.5, chloride 93,
bicarbonate 22, BUN 40, creatinine 1.5, glucose 135.  Initial
arterial blood gas demonstrated a pH of 7.37, PCO2 74, PAO2
of 46 on 6 liters by face mask.  His serum lactate was 1.1.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Although the patient had recently been
initiated on hospice care, the decision was made for the
patient to undergo a left hemiarthroplasty for repair of his
left femoral neck fracture, given that this procedure would
give the patient the best chance of early ambulation with
full weight bearing. However, given his reported history of
coronary artery disease, a cardiology consult was obtained
for clearance prior to this operative procedure.  The
Cardiology Service felt that the patient was asymptomatic
from a cardiovascular standpoint at a low functional level.
They felt that his baseline dyspnea on exertion was likely
secondary to his chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  They
felt that given his recent cardiac catheterization in [**2163-9-16**], which demonstrated normal coronaries and an absence
of symptoms, the patient was unlikely to have a flow limiting
coronary artery disease.  They recommended changing his
Diltiazem to a beta blocker perioperatively.  This adjustment
was made.  Given his significant anemia on presentation to
the [**Hospital1 69**], the patient was
also transfused 3 units of packed red blood cells prior to
the operative procedure.

The patient went to the Operating Room on [**2166-9-13**]
for his left hemiarthroplasty.  Although this procedure was
uncomplicated from an orthopedics point of view, while in the
Operating Room the patient reportedly dropped his oxygen
saturation to 75 to 80%.  Airway suctioning done at that time
reportedly demonstrated copious amounts of coffee ground
emesis.  A repeat chest x-ray done following the procedure
demonstrated diffuse, patchy opacification of the right
middle and lower lobes consistent with an aspiration
pneumonia.  Given the appearance of this chest x-ray and the
patient's history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
he was deemed to be a poor candidate for weaning off of
mechanical ventilation and was therefore transferred to the
MICU for continued monitoring.

The remainder of the hospital course by systems:

1.  Respiratory failure:  As noted above the patient
aspirated coffee ground emesis (likely gastric contents given
his history of gastric cancer) during his left
hemiarthroplasty and was therefore intubated for further
airway protection.  He initially required frequent suctioning
of coffee ground emesis, but he gradually required less and
less suctioning following his successful extubation on
[**2166-9-15**].  By the time of discharge from the
hospital the patient was requiring minimal self suctioning of
tannish secretions.  A repeat chest x-ray done on [**9-15**] demonstrated marked interval improvements in his right
middle lobe and right lower lobe atelectatic changes.  There
was also evidence of patchy left lower lobe consolidation and
a right perihilar consolidation possibly consistent with a
multifocal aspiration pneumonia.  On physical examination,
however, his lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally and
the patient was maintaining good oxygen saturation on room
air.  He was continued on his baseline chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease medications (Fluticasone, Salmeterol, and
Combivent inhalers).  He was also started on Clindamycin 600
mg intravenous q 8 hours following his orthopedic procedure
for empiric coverage of his aspiration pneumonia.  This
medication was changed to an oral formulation prior to his
discharge from the hospital.

Overall, at the time of discharge from the hospital the
patient's respiratory status was markedly improved and
appeared to be at its baseline.

2.  Gastric cancer:  The patient has a known metastatic
gastric cancer and was recently begun on hospice care.  His
gastric cancer was the presumed source of his coffee ground
emesis.  Although his hematocrit was found to be 20 on
admission he was subsequently transfused a total of 4 units
of packed red blood cells throughout the admission and his
hematocrit subsequently increased to 32.  At the time of
discharge the patient's hematocrit was stable at
approximately 27.5.  He was continued on Pantoprazole 40 mg
intravenous q 12 hours given his coffee ground emesis.  Plans
were discussed with the patient and his wife for transfer and
reinitiation of hospice care following his discharge from the
hospital.

3.  Left femoral neck fracture:  At the time of discharge the
patient was postoperative day number four following a left
hemiarthroplasty for his left femoral neck fracture.  He
began working with physical therapy on [**9-15**], the
physical therapist recommended inpatient rehabilitation with
transition to home hospice care following discharge from the
hospital.  Although he continued to experience left hip and
knee pain, the patient began transferring from bed to chair
with the assistance of the physical therapist.  Although the
patient ideally would have been resumed on anticoagulative
therapy with Warfarin following his orthopedic procedure,
given that he was having continued coffee ground emesis
presumably from his gastric cancer, the patient was not
restarted on anticoagulative medications following his
orthopedic procedure.  He was instead mai