Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 69416**]
Admission Date: [**2142-8-15**]
Discharge Date: [**2142-9-27**]
Date of Birth:  [**2079-1-24**]
Sex:  F
Service:  [**Last Name (un) 7081**]


DISCHARGE DATE:  Anticipated date of discharge: [**2142-9-27**].

The patient is a 63-year-old woman who was transferred from
[**Hospital6 **] following admission for new-onset
angina followed by cardiac catheterization which revealed
significant 3-vessel disease. She was transferred for
coronary artery bypass grafting.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 63-year-old woman complaining
of chest pain radiating to her neck and right scapula for the
last 6 months. She has had multiple episodes, always
triggered by exercise such as walking for 5 to 10 minutes.
The pain is accompanied by dyspnea and diaphoresis. She
denies nausea or vomiting. EKG at the outside hospital showed
T-wave inversions and ST elevations in the anterolateral
leads. She was treated initially with Lopressor, aspirin,
Plavix and heparin and then brought to the cardiac
catheterization lab that showed a left main with no stenosis,
LAD that was calcified with diffuse severe proximal disease
culminating in a 90% stenosis, circumflex with 70% to 75%
proximal stenosis and an 85% stenosis of the OM1, and an RCA
that was occluded proximally with the distal RCA filled from
left to right collaterals. She also, by report, had reduced
LV systolic function and an elevated left ventricular and
diastolic pressure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hypertension,
nephrolithiasis, status post lithotripsy.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Included a multivitamin.

ALLERGIES:  The patient states no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with daughter. [**Name (NI) **] alcohol or drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  No history of CAD. Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs: Temperature 98.4, heart
rate 78, blood pressure 107/67. Respiratory rate 20 and O2
saturation 92% on room air and 94% with 2 liters. Neurologic:
Alert and oriented x3. No acute distress. Cardiovascular:
Regular rate and rhythm, no murmur appreciated. Respiratory:
Clear to auscultation bilaterally. No murmurs, rubs or
gallops. Abdomen soft and nontender, nondistended with
positive bowel sounds. Right groin post-catheterization site
without hematoma. Lower extremities: No clubbing cyanosis or
edema with 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 11, hematocrit 33, platelets
274, INR 1.1, sodium 141, potassium 3.5, chloride 105, CO2 of
26, BUN 9, creatinine 0.6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was stabilized on statin, beta
blockers and heparin infusion. On the [**10-18**], she was
brought to the operating room. Please see the OR report for
full details. In summary, she had a CABG x4 with a LIMA to
the LAD, saphenous vein graft to OM1, saphenous vein graft to
OM1, saphenous vein graft to OM2, and saphenous vein graft to
PDA. Her cross-clamp time was 98 minutes with a bypass time
of 121 minutes. She was transferred from the operating room
to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit. At the time of
transfer, she had epinephrine at 0.3 mcg per kg per minute
and Neo-Synephrine at 0.3 mcg per kg per minute, and a
propofol infusion. She was in a sinus rhythm at 86 beats per
minute with a mean arterial pressure of 67 and a PAD of 11.
In the immediate postoperative period, the patient was
hemodynamically unstable. Within hours of arrival in the
cardiothoracic intensive care unit, the patient had an
intraaortic balloon pump placed at the bedside. A TEE was
obtained at that time that showed severe global hypokinesis.

The patient was then brought back to the operating room where
a repeat catheterization was done. The catheterization showed
100% occlusion of the saphenous vein graft to the RCA and a
LIMA to the LAD, a patent saphenous vein graft to OM1 and
OM2. They attempted to do a PTCA of the LIMA, however there
was significant thrombus and high-grade stenosis at the
anastomotic site. They were, however, able to successfully do
a PCI of the native LAD, restoring TIMI-3 flow to the native
LAD, following which the patient was transferred back to the
cardiothoracic intensive care unit. The patient returned from
the operating room to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit
with epinephrine, milrinone, amiodarone, Neo-Synephrine and
lidocaine infusions and continued to have breakthrough
ventricular ectopy as well as short bursts of ventricular
tachycardia. She remained somewhat hemodynamically stable
throughout the operative day. On postoperative day 1, the
patient stabilized somewhat. She continued to have occasional
episodes of ventricular tachycardia. Her epinephrine infusion
was weaned to off. She was continued on amiodarone,
lidocaine, Neo-Synephrine and milrinone as well as an
intraaortic balloon pump. She was kept sedated throughout
this period.

On postoperative day 2, the patient continued to make slow
progress. Her intraaortic balloon pump was weaned and
ultimately discontinued following which the patient had a dip
in her mixed venous O2 as well as cardiac index and her
epinephrine infusion was reinstituted. Over the next several
days, the patient's inotropes were slowly weaned. Sedation
was decreased and she was allowed to awake. Her ventilator
was weaned to pressure support ventilation.

On the [**9-21**], she was successfully extubated. She did
continue, however, to need intermittent episodes of BiPAP to
maintain her respiratory status. At the same time, the
patient's antiarrhythmics, inotropes and pressors were also
slowly being weaned. Despite making progress hemodynamically,
the patient continued to be marginal from a pulmonary
standpoint, requiring longer and longer duration of her being
on BiPAP with less and less time off. Ultimately, she was
reintubated on the [**10-5**]. A bronchoscopy done at
that time showed patent airways without significant
secretions. The patient also had a central line placed at
that time and blood and urine cultures were sent for a
persistent white count above 12 with a low-grade fever. A
feeding tube was placed and tube feeds were begun. The
patient was aggressively diuresed over the next several days
in an attempt to get any fluid off prior to an attempt at
weaning from the ventilator again. She was again allowed to
awaken from sedation, ventilated easily with minimal
ventilator support. A repeat bronchoscopy on the 18th again
showed patent airways with minimal secretions and mild
bronchomalacia. Sputum and blood cultures from earlier showed
methicillin-resistant Staph and the patient was begun on
vancomycin. An ID consult was obtained at that point in time.
All previous lines were re-cited and a thoracic consult was
obtained for potential tracheostomy and G tube placement.

After several attempts at pressure support wean, the patient
underwent a tracheostomy as well as G tube placement on the
[**10-13**]. Please see the OR report for full details.
The patient tolerated the procedure well and the following
day was able to wean to a tracheostomy collar. The patient
remained hemodynamically stable in the cardiothoracic
intensive care unit for several more days, not requiring any
further ventilatory support.

On postoperative day 32 __________ , the patient was
transferred to the floor for continuing postoperative care
and cardiac rehabilitation. Over the next week, the patient
had an uneventful course. She had a PICC line inserted on the
[**10-19**]. She had a left-sided paracentesis on
[**9-21**] for only 300 cc of straw-colored fluid. On
[**9-26**], it was decided that the patient was stable and
ready for transfer to rehabilitation.

At the time of this dictation, the patient's physical exam is
as follows. Vital signs: Temperature 99, heart rate 100,
sinus rhythm, blood pressure 109/62. Respiratory rate 30, and
O2 saturation 100% on a 21% tracheostomy collar. Weight
preoperatively 75.6 kg, at discharge 73.9 kg. Neurologic:
Alert, responsive, moves all extremities, follows commands.
Pulmonary: Scattered rhonchi with a productive cough.
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm. Sternum is stable, incision
without erythema or drainage. Abdomen is soft and nontender,
nondistended, with normal active bowel so