Admission Date: [**2198-4-16**]        Discharge Date: [**2198-5-15**]


Service:  CME


ADDENDUM AS FOLLOWS:
1. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE/ANTERIOR ST SEGMENT ELEVATION MI:
   As mentioned in the prior discharge summary, the patient
   sustained a large anterior myocardial infarction.  As
   mentioned in the prior discharge summary, the patient
   underwent Rheolytic thrombectomy of the totally occluded
   LAD, and thereafter was maintained on 325 mg qd enteric-
   coated aspirin, as well as Plavix 75 mg qd.  His Lipitor
   dose was increased up to 80 mg qd.  The patient was also
   maintained on low-dose ACE inhibitor.  Initially, the
   patient received captopril tid, and this was converted to
   lisinopril 2.5 mg qd prior to discharge.

The patient continued to have intermittent episodes of chest
discomfort, though did not have any significant ischemic EKG
changes with these episodes.  The patient was ruled out again
for myocardial infarction on the [**5-9**] with serial
negative cardiac enzymes, with a CK max of 32, and a troponin-
T that ranged from 0.53-0.54, which was significantly down
from his maximum troponin of 13.88 on the [**4-20**].  The
patient was also maintained on low dose beta blocker.  The
beta blocker dose was titrated upward as tolerated.  His
metoprolol was converted to Toprol XL prior to discharge.
The patient will be discharged on 25 mg qd of Toprol XL.

1. CHF:  As mentioned in the prior discharge summary, the
   patient had a reduced ejection fraction following his
   anterior MI.  His EF was approximately 30 percent with LV
   anterior wall akinesis.  The patient continued to have
   several episodes of flash pulmonary edema.  The patient
   was diuresed as tolerated with Lasix 80 mg IV, and also at
   times with a combination of Zaroxolyn 30 minutes prior to
   Lasix 80 mg IV.  The patient's diuresis was limited
   somewhat by acute renal failure.

The patient continued to have a low level oxygen requirement
of several liters of oxygen.  It was felt that this oxygen
requirement was secondary to his residual failure, including
bilateral pleural effusions.  Prior to discharge, the
patient's room air oxygen saturation was noted to be in the
low-90's.  Given the patient's anterior wall akinesis,
several attempts were made to maintain the patient on
anticoagulation for stroke prophylaxis.  However, as
mentioned in the prior discharge summary, the patient had a
GI bleed while on Coumadin.  The patient similarly had a GI
bleed while anticoagulated on IV heparin.  Thus, the patient
was maintained on continuous heparin 5,000 units tid for DVT
prophylaxis.  Please see section below for more details on
his recurrent GI bleeds.  If the patient remains without GI
bleed for several weeks following discharge, consideration
will be made towards restarting his Coumadin stroke
prophylaxis.

1. ATRIAL FIBRILLATION WITH INTERMITTENT RVR:  The patient
   was noted to have intermittent rapid ventricular response
   to his atrial fibrillation with rates up to the 120's to
   130's.  The bursts of rapid AFIB would tend to last for 1-
   2 hours and would stop spontaneously.  The patient was
   loaded with a significant amount of intravenous
   amiodarone, which totaled approximately 13-14 gm.  The
   patient was then transitioned to an oral regimen.  The
   patient was also noted to have [**2-2**] second pauses on
   telemetry, as mentioned in the prior discharge summary.
   Thus, the patient underwent placement of a pacemaker on
   the [**5-7**].  The patient received a St. [**Male First Name (un) 923**] DDD ADX DR
   [**Last Name (STitle) **] 5380 serial:  [**Numeric Identifier 55687**] TR 11.6 pacemaker.  The patient
   subsequently had several episodes of rapid rate into the
   120's the day following pacemaker placement, presumably
   from atrial fibrillation suppression mode of the
   pacemaker.  The patient's atrial fibrillation suppression
   mode was then turned off.  In addition, his basal rate was
   increased to 70 beats per minute in an attempt to suppress
   his atrial fibrillation.  The patient was maintained,
   thereafter, on beta blocker (metoprolol and later Toprol
   XL as tolerated).  The patient's pacemaker site remained
   clean, dry, nonindurated, nonerythematous and nontender to
   palpation.  The patient will follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]
   for further pacemaker management.

1. INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  As mentioned in the prior
   discharge summary, the patient had E. coli high-grade
   bacteremia for which he received a course of ciprofloxacin
   IV.  The patient initially received 200 mg IV qd
   ciprofloxacin on a renally dosed basis.  As his renal
   function, the patient's dose was increased to 200 mg [**Hospital1 **].
   All in all, the patient received 16 days of ciprofloxacin
   IV.

The patient was also noted to have soft palate plaques that
were white in color and appeared herpetic in nature.  A swab
of these lesions did, in fact, reveal HSV I.  Yeast cultures
were negative.  The patient received a 7-day course of
acyclovir 400 mg po tid with significant improvement of these
mouth ulcers.

In addition, the patient was noted to have consistent
funguria.  Urine cultures revealed 10,000-100,000 colonies of
yeast consistently.  Therefore, the patient's Foley catheter
was removed, and the patient received a 5-day course of
fluconazole po.  The patient defervesced on this regimen of
antibiotics and remained afebrile for the approximately 8
days prior to discharge.  Likewise, the patient's white blood
cell count diminished from a level of 23 on the [**5-5**]
down to 7.2 the day prior to discharge.  The patient also
underwent CT of the torso to look for additional sources for
infection when his fevers did not resolve initially on the
broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen.  CT scan of the torso did
not reveal an obvious source of infection, other than those
mentioned above.  Incidentally noted was a multiseptated
intermediate density splenic lesion with associated slight
thickening of the left lateral coronal fascia.  Further
ultrasound follow-up of this finding revealed a complex
cystic structure at the lower pole of the spleen which was
consistent with hemorrhage into a large epithelial cyst in
the spleen.  Echogenic debris was seen within the cystic
portion, and did not demonstrate evidence of flow within it
on color and pulse Doppler imaging.  Also incidentally noted
on the CT of the torso were calcified granulomas within the
liver, as well as 1.1 cm gallstones within the gallbladder,
and a 3 mm nonobstructive stone in the lower pole of the left
kidney.  Subsequent ultrasound examination of the abdomen did
not demonstrate any evidence of cholecystitis.  These
findings were discussed at length with the patient and with
the patient's family.

1. RECURRENT GI BLEED:  As mentioned in the prior discharge
   summary, the patient initially presented following a large
   GI bleed, when he discontinued taking his aspirin, Plavix
   following the GI bleed.  As the patient had a further
   episode of GI bleed while anticoagulated on Coumadin
   (detailed in the prior discharge summary), a GI consult
   was obtained, and EGD demonstrated several gastric ulcers.
   The patient was maintained on pantoprazole 40 mg po bid.
   Nonetheless, the patient experienced a further episode of
   bright red blood per rectum when later placed again on
   anticoagulation.  As it was felt that the bright red blood
   was unlikely to be resultant from the gastric erosions,
   the patient underwent colonoscopy on the [**5-9**].
   Colonoscopy demonstrated internal hemorrhoids with
   significant erythema and irritation surrounding the
   hemorrhoids.  The bleeding noted on the colonoscopy
   appeared to be in the region of the hemorrhoids, and did
   not appear to be more proximal in the colon.  Incidentally
   noted were benign-appearing 4-5 mm colonic polyps, as well
   as numerous diverticula, and did not have any stigmata of
   recent bleed.

As the hemorrhoids appeared to be the most likely culprit for
his recurrent GI bleed, a surgical consult was obtained, and
the patient underwent hemorrhoidal banding on the 