Admission Date:  [**2133-9-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2133-10-4**]


Service:  Neurosurgery Service

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 83 year old
right-handed man brought to my [**Hospital **] [**Hospital 35467**] Hospital by the
family status post a fall after his cane slipped on a wet
surface and falling on his right knee.  The family reported
he had increased lethargy and weakness for two weeks prior to
presentation and that the patient was not himself at all on
presentation to the outside hospital.  The patient had also
reported that he was having hip pain for one week and that he
had hit his head on the fall.  The patient takes Coumadin at
home for deep vein thrombosis.  Computerized tomography scan
was taken and showed evidence of subarachnoid and subdural
hemorrhage.  The patient was given Dilantin, fresh frozen
plasma, Vitamin K and was transferred to [**Hospital6 1760**] for further management.  The
patient denied any chest pain, loss of consciousness,
syncope, shortness of breath, fever, chills or nausea and
vomiting.

On admission to [**Hospital6 256**] the
patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for blood
pressure control and frequent neurological checks.  He was
seen by Neurosurgery and found to have no acute indication
for neurosurgery at that time.  On admission his systolic
blood pressure was 220.  The patient remained stable in the
Intensive Care Unit for 24 hours and became oriented times
three and was less lethargic and was therefore transferred
out of the Intensive Care Unit to the floor.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Noninsulin dependent diabetes
mellitus, deep vein thrombosis with Factor [**First Name9 (NamePattern2) 7060**] [**Location (un) 5244**]
mutation, cerebrovascular accident on the left side with
left-sided weakness, glaucoma, diverticulosis,
nephrolithiasis, poor caval shunt for cirrhosis and varices,
diverticulitis and malaria.

MEDICATIONS:  Coumadin, Avandia, Demodex, Glucotrol and
glaucoma drops.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination the patient
was awake, alert and oriented times three with no external
evidence of head trauma, no stiff neck.  Neurologically the
patient was awake, normal extraocular muscles, visual fields
were normal and funduscopic examination showed no blood, no
ptosis, face symmetric.  Cranial nerves were grossly intact.
Head computerized tomography scan from an outside hospital
showed subarachnoid blood over the frontal convexity
bilaterally and layered blood in the occipital hones of both
lateral ventricles.  Magnetic resonance imaging scan of the
head confirmed computerized tomography scan findings and
magnetic resonance angiography was of poor quality.

On physical examination this was an alert, awake patient in
no acute distress.  Cardiovascular, S1 and S2, I/VI systolic
murmur.  Pulmonary, lungs clear to auscultation except for
bibasilar crackles, no wheezing, abdomen was soft, nontender
with positive bowel sounds.  Extremities, no edema, clubbing
or cyanosis.  The patient had a mild left pronator drift,
strength was 4+/5, normal bulk and tone.  Mild left
dysmetria.  Reflexes were 3+ in the upper extremities and 2+
in the lower extremities and toes were upgoing bilaterally.
He had a negative [**Doctor Last Name **] sign.  Sensation was intact to
light touch.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient had an episode of wide complex
tachycardia to a rate of 133.  CPKs were cycled.  The patient
had no chest pain, palpitations or diaphoresis with this
episode. He was started on Lopressor for rate control.
Cardiology was consulted.  The patient also ruled in for a
deep vein thrombosis on the right side.  He had an inferior
vena cava filter placed.  On [**2133-9-23**] the patient
was found unresponsive.  Stat head computerized tomography
scan showed new left temporal bleed with mild mass effect and
shift.  The patient was transferred back to the Intensive
Care Unit.  The patient had urgent neurosurgery consult who
placed an external ventricular drain in the patient.
Computerized tomography scan showed marked intracerebral
hemorrhage with subarachnoid hemorrhage into the suprasellar
cisterns and intraventricular blood.  The patient went on
angiogram on [**2133-9-23**] which showed a left middle
cerebral artery bifurcation, bilobar aneurysm.  The patient
was taken emergently to the Operating Room for a clipping of
the aneurysm which was done successfully without
intraoperative complications.  On [**2133-9-24**] the
patient had a low sodium and was started on 3% saline at 10
cc/hr.  Postoperative he had high CPKs into the 300s with a
positive MB but no associated ischemic electrocardiogram
changes and a troponin level of 39.5 on [**2133-9-23**].
The patient was continued to be followed by Cardiology.  The
patient was treated with Esmolol for rate control.
Neurologically on the day of surgery the patient was sedated
with minimal spontaneous movement of his extremities.  His
pupils were 3, down to 1.5 mm and briskly reactive.  He had
no withdrawal to painful stimuli in the upper extremities and
slight withdrawal of the lower extremities with triple
flexion to painful stimuli in the lower extremities.  The
patient continued to be followed by the Hematology/Oncology
Service for his thrombocytopenia as well as his Factor V
deficiency.  Hematology/Oncology is likely attributing his
thrombocytopenia to underlying liver disease with
splenomegaly.  The patient had cardiac echocardiogram on
[**2133-9-26**] which shows preserved left ventricular
function.  On [**2133-9-28**], the pupils are 5 mm and
slightly reactive, otherwise the patient remained
unresponsive.  His chest x-ray showed bilateral pleural
effusions.  He continued on Kefzol 1 gm intravenously q. 8
hours.  The patient had repeat head computerized tomography
scan on [**2133-9-28**] which was unchanged from previous
scans.  On [**2133-10-1**], after being weaned off of
sedation for 24 hours the patient continued to be
unresponsive to painful stimuli in his upper extremities and
had slight triple flexion to painful stimuli in his lower
extremities.  The patient also had intact corneal reflexes
but no gag reflex and continued to breathe spontaneously over
a ventilator.  At a family meeting on [**2133-10-4**] it
was determined that the patient would not want to be kept
alive by artificial means.  The patient was extubated and
placed on a Morphine drip.  He expired on [**2133-10-4**]
at 1645.






                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1133**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 344**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2134-1-6**]  12:19
T:  [**2134-1-6**]  18:35
JOB#:  [**Job Number 23320**]
RP12/24/[**2133**]
