Admission Date:  [**2177-10-4**]       Discharge Date:[**2177-11-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2125-12-24**]       Sex:  M


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 51-year-old
male with a history of human immunodeficiency virus infection
who was transferred from [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital for management
of severe pancreatitis.
The patient apparently presented to [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital on
[**2177-9-30**] following three days of severe abdominal
pain.  Initially, the patient was believed to have had a
perforated viscus.  However, further evaluation suggested
that the etiology of the patient's severe abdominal pain was
actually pancreatitis.  His lipase level was greater than
[**2175**].  Initially, he hemoglobin and hematocrit were within

He was admitted to their Intensive Care Unit initially,
mainly due to the severe elevation of his lipase.  At that
time he was very clinically stable.  A CT of his abdomen
revealed nonhemorrhagic pancreatitis.  Within 24 hours,
however, the patient became severely hemoconcentrated with a
hematocrit of 56%.  His serum calcium dropped to 6.9 mg/dL.
His serum phosphate level dropped to 1 mg/dL.  His lactate
level, though not confirmed, was reported at almost 60, and
the patient also developed a marked increase in his creatine
kinase to over 8000.

The patient's abdomen became markedly distended, his
respirations became increasingly labored, so he was intubated
for respiratory distress.  Antibiotics were initially started
with ceftriaxone, but then changed empirically to imipenem.
He was also treated with intravenous esmolol for an episode
of supraventricular tachycardia.  His partner requested that
he be transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
further care.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Heparin, Effexor, total parenteral
nutrition, Fentanyl patch, Valium, nitroglycerin paste,
Sandostat, esmolol, Vasotec, nifedipine, imipenem.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Human immunodeficiency virus disease diagnosed in [**2162**].
His CD4 in [**2177-6-1**] was in the 500 range.  His CD4 nadir
was 150 in [**2170**].  He does have a history of Kaposi sarcoma on
his legs in [**2167**] as his only acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome defining condition to date.  In [**2176-12-2**] he
had been started on a new antiretroviral regimen of
stavudine, lamivudine, and Kaletra.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  An episode of abdominal pain diagnosed as pancreatitis
in [**2150**].
4.  Kidney stones.
5.  Herpes simplex stomatitis.
6.  Psoriasis.
7.  Depression.

ALLERGIES:  SULFA and DAPSONE.  He developed a rash with both
of these.  He also developed fever and low-grade rash with
NEVIRAPINE.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient does not smoke and only drinks
rare amounts of alcohol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature 103.8,
blood pressure 165/70, pulse 130, respiratory rate 10,
satting 99%.  In general, the patient was sedated and
intubated.  Head, ears, nose, eyes and throat revealed
ET-tube in place.  Chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Cardiovascular was hyperdynamic, tachycardic,
and regular.  The abdomen was mildly distended, soft, with no
bowel sounds.  Extremities were with no edema.  Neurologic
examination revealed unresponsive to stimuli.  Pupils were
miotic and reactive bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell count 7.7,
hematocrit 35, platelets 125.  Sodium 147, potassium 3.6,
chloride 105, bicarbonate 30, blood urea nitrogen 16,
creatinine 0.8, glucose 158.  ALT 57, AST 111, alkaline
phosphatase 61, total bilirubin 3.8.  Calcium 7.8,
magnesium 2.2, phosphate 2.1.  Albumin 2.7, pH of
7.43/55/124, lactate 3.3, amylase 195, lipase 45.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Abdominal CT from [**2177-10-1**],
showed diffuse pancreatitis with no evidence of free air or
necrosis.  No abscesses were seen.  There was fatty
infiltration of the liver, small bilateral pleural effusions
were noted.  There was positive pelvic and abdominal fluid
present.

Echocardiogram revealed left ventricular hypertrophy and
normal ejection fraction.  There was a septal wall motion
abnormalities noted, trace mitral regurgitation.  No
vegetations were noted.

Electrocardiogram revealed sinus tachycardia with left atrial
enlargement, poor R wave progression was noted.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

 1.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient was admitted with severe
pancreatitis.  He was treated empirically with antibiotics;
initially with imipenem for a prolonged course.  Serial CT
scans were followed of his abdomen to evaluate the
progression of his pancreatitis.  Evidence of necrosis of his
pancreas was noted; however, there was no evidence to suggest
an infected phlegmon.

The Surgery Service was following as a consultant on the
case.  Given the gradual improvement of the patient's
pancreatitis, though slow, they recommended conservative
supportive management.  Discussion was held regarding whether
to aspirate fluid from near the pancreas.  However, given the
severity of his pancreatitis, it was felt any interventional
procedures in the region of his pancreas could potentially
worsen his course.

He was aggressively supported from a nutrition and
electrolyte standpoint.  He remained on total parenteral
nutrition during essentially the bulk of his entire course in
the hospital.  With regard to his pancreatitis, CT scan on
[**2177-11-4**] showed minimal radiographic findings for
pancreatitis.

It was not entirely clear as to the etiology of his
pancreatitis at that point in time.  He has no strong history
of alcohol use.  He has no history of gallstones.  There is
some thought that it could be related to his human
immunodeficiency virus antiretroviral regimen.  That is not
entirely clear at this point; however, his antiretrovirals
have been held since his admission to the hospital.

On [**2177-10-25**], the General Surgery Service evaluated
the patient regarding the possibility of acalculous
cholecystitis.  The patient had a rising total bilirubin
which went to 2.  His alkaline phosphatase had also elevated
over the course of several days.  Given his long/severe
illness, Surgery felt that he certainly was at risk for
acalculous cholecystitis.  They recommended a HIDA scan.

On the HIDA scan, the gallbladder was not visualized, and
this was interpreted as a positive study.  Radiology was
called in to place a cholecystostomy tube.  This was done on
[**10-26**].  This tube needs to stay in for at least three
weeks to allow a track to mature.  He was placed empirically
on ciprofloxacin and Flagyl to cover his biliary tree while
he was draining via the cholecystostomy tube.  His total
bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase defervesced over the
course of the next few days.

The patient was fed, as noted above, via total parenteral
nutrition during the course of this admission.
Gastrointestinal was unable to place an endoscopic post
pyloric feeding tube due to fair amount of edema near the
pylorus.  Eventually an oral gastric tube was placed, and
tube feedings were eventually started via the oral gastric
tube which the patient tolerated gradually as morphine was
weaned off as sedation.

 2.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient had persistent spiking
very high temperatures throughout the course of his
admission.  His temperatures at one point had spiked to 105
or greater for several days.  No clear source of infection
ever grew from culture data.  Most of the culture data
appeared to grow what were likely colonizers including
enterococcus.  As noted above, the patient was on a long
course of imipenem.  He also had Diflucan on board for fungal
coverage of his pancreas.

He was treated with a 2-week course of ciprofloxacin and
Flagyl for acalculous cholecystitis, and he had a
cholecystostomy tube placed for drainage.

The patient was found to have fairly significant sinusitis.
The otolaryngology service was consulted, and they performed
a sinus aspiration; however, this aspirate did not grow
anything that appeared to be a pathogen.

The patient eventually developed a rash which was felt to be
secondary to imipenem given the 3-week course.  His imipenem
was discontinued, and he was covered empirically with
levofloxacin, Flagyl, and vancomycin.  These were then
change