Admission Date:  [**2148-2-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2148-2-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2070-11-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU/[**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 77-year-old
gentleman, a patient of Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], who was referred
with known peripheral vascular disease referred to Dr.
[**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 487**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] for lower extremity angiography on [**2148-2-19**]
who was not able to complete angiography due to severe lower
extremity pain.  For the past month, the patient had been
experiencing lower extremity pain that extended from his
right buttocks to his calf.  This occurred after he walks or
stands for three minutes and was relieved by sitting or lying
down.  He reports that over the last few days he was having
symptoms at rest.  He also complains of having pain,
tingling, and a "wet/cool feeling" in his right foot and both
hands.  The patient states that he has angina that occurs
approximately once every two weeks with exertion.  He takes
sublingual nitroglycerin with relief.  He denied orthopnea,
PND, lightheadedness.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  CAD with CABG.
2.  Multiple percutaneous catheterizations to both grafts and
native vessels.
3.  Peripheral vascular disease with right ABI of 0.8 and a
left lower extremity bypass in [**2141**].
4.  Diabetes.
5.  ICD for NSVT.
6.  CHF.  Ejection fraction 25-30% with 2+ MR.
7.  BPH.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin and strawberries cause hives.  Lactose
intolerance. Shellfish and dye allergies.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1.  Aspirin 81 q.d.
2.  Digoxin 0.125 q.d.
3.  Paxil 10 mg q.d.
4.  Zestril 40 mg q.d.
5.  Atenolol 100 mg q.d.
6.  Imdur 60 mg q.d.
7.  Norvasc 10 mg q.d.
8.  Ambien 5 mg q.h.s.
9.  Plavix 75 q.d.
10. Lasix 40 q.d.
11. Lipitor 10 q.d.
12. Insulin regular 10 units in the morning, 22 units of
Lente in the morning, 24 units of regular with dinner, 26
units of Lente before bed.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient quit smoking more than ten years
ago.  He is widowed.  He is a retired postal worker.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  Temperature
97.2, pulse 56, blood pressure 120/60, respiratory rate 20,
saturations 100% on 5 liters.  Fingerstick 207.  General:
The patient was a well-developed, well-nourished man
breathing comfortably.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.
Nonicteric.  Dry mucous membranes.  Oropharynx was clear.
Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  No carotid bruits.
Thorax:  Diffuse inspiratory rhonchi and end-expiratory
wheezes bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate, normal
S1, S2.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended with no hepatosplenomegaly.  Positive
bowel sounds times four.  Extremities:  No rash.  No
clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Distal pulses diminished but
palpable on lower extremities bilaterally.  Neurologic:  The
patient was awake, alert, and oriented times three.  Cranial
nerves II through XII intact.  Full strength throughout the
upper and lower extremities.  Sensory:  Intact to light
touch.  Back:  No CVA or spinal/paraspinal tenderness to
palpation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient had a cardiac catheterization
and stent the day of admission with the final diagnosis of
three vessel coronary artery disease, patent SVG to OM1,
patent LIMA to LAD, severe diffuse disease of the right
superficial femoral artery, popliteal, and posterior tibial
arteries.  He had successful atherectomy of the PTA of the
right SFA, popliteal, and PT.  Successful stenting of the
right SFA.  The patient was then transferred to the CRSU
where he was transferred because he continued to have oxygen
requirement.  The patient had been hydrated for renal
protection and then became short of breath and was requiring
100% nonrebreather.  He was saturating 90% on the
nonrebreather.  The patient was given 20 mg of IV Lasix and
the patient was complaining of shortness of breath
intermittently.  The patient was transferred to the CCU team
for further management of his hypoxia.

1.  HYPOXIA:  The patient's P02 of 66 on 100% nonrebreather.
It was attributed to pulmonary edema secondary to dye load
and postcatheterization fluid.  The patient was diuresed with
Lasix p.r.n. and had a chest x-ray to rule out any pneumonia.
The patient's hypoxia improved the following morning after
further diuresis and was saturating comfortably on nasal
cannula.  However, throughout the rest of the day, the
patient continued to become more hypoxic and required
increasing amounts of oxygen.  Instead of being transferred
out of the Intensive Care Unit, the patient had a repeat
blood gas which showed a P02 of 64 on the nonrebreather again
and on length of stay the patient had been 1,700 cc positive.
Again, the patient was further diuresed with Lasix with
minimal output and concern for minimal output in light of
contrast dye load and the patient's diabetes.  The patient
did eventually develop signs of contrast nephropathy and with
poor output to Lasix and diuresis the patient continued to
have oxygen requirement.  He was tried on BIPAP
intermittently overnight and because of discomfort did not
tolerate and went back to 100% nonrebreather and then back to
BIPAP and eventually was intubated for persistent hypoxia and
concern for respiratory fatigue.

The patient remained intubated for three or four days and was
continued to be titrated off his oxygen requirement.  The
patient remained stable and for improvement in diuresis the
patient was started on a Lasix drip and the Swan was placed
for better cardiac monitoring.  The patient had a chest x-ray
which showed right-sided effusion and mild edema but no
pneumothorax.  The patient was slightly hypotensive initially
and his Lasix and Natrecor were held.  Eventually, his blood
pressure improved and the patient was restarted on Lasix and
Natrecor for further diuresis.  Eventually, as the patient
was diuresed with p.r.n. doses of Lasix and Natrecor and
continued to respond to diuresis as his renal function was
improving.

The patient was able to be weaned from his ventilator and was
successfully extubated on [**2148-2-26**].  He was doing well,
back on room air and was transferred to the floor.  His
hypoxia was attributed to pulmonary edema with also a
superimposed pneumonia versus bronchitis as he continued to
have gram-negative rods growing on his sputum which were
never speciated.  No evidence of a pneumonia was seen on
chest x-ray but the patient was started on a seven day course
of ceftazidime and levofloxacin which were started secondary
to a temperature spike to 101 in light of being intubated and
the gram-negative rods on the sputum.

The patient was diuresed with Lasix and Natrecor as described
above and eventually was started on milrinone in addition to
this regimen to help his cardiac status.  Together with the
milrinone, Natrecor, and the Lasix drip was able to diurese
and the patient continued at a goal rate of diuresis of 500
cc to a liter daily and eventually as the patient started to
respond and his creatinine started to improve, diuresis
improved and his oxygenation improved.

The patient was eventually taken off the Lasix and Natrecor
and started back on afterload reduction for his decreased
ejection fraction and heart failure.  After his creatinine
improved and his renal function improved, the patient was
restarted on his ACE inhibitor, continued and titrated up on
long-acting beta blocker like Coreg.  In addition to further
afterload reduction with Imdur.  The patient's creatinine at
the time of discharge from the MICU was 1.0 and back to his
baseline.

The patient was also continued on his digoxin and continued
to be stable on this.

2.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient remained stable on
his aspirin, Plavix, and statin regimen.  The patient had an
exercise MIBI in [**2147-12-31**] with severe LV enlargement,
severe fixed defect in the basilar portion of the inferior
wall, severe fixed defect in the mid anterior wall, moderate
fixed apical defect, mild partially reversible defect in the
basilar portion of the lateral wall, severe glo