Admission Date:  [**2169-5-18**]       Discharge Date:  [**2169-6-5**]


Service:  CARDIAC SURGERY

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 79-year-old woman
with known mitral valve disease referred to [**Hospital1 346**] for surgical repair of mitral valve.
The patient has been medically managed for the past two
years, had a cardiac catheterization in [**2167**] which revealed
no significant coronary disease.  However, +3-+4 mitral
regurgitation and an EF of 45%.  The most recent
echocardiogram in [**2168-2-10**] showed an EF of 45%.  For
the past 48 hours, the patient has complained of increased
short of breath.  She was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for repair of her mitral valve.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Mitral regurgitation with mitral valve prolapse.
2.  CHF.
3.  Vertigo.
4.  Labyrinthitis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Arthroscopy.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1.  Lasix 20 q.d.
2.  Atenolol 25 mg q.d.
3.  Aspirin 325 mg q.d.
4.  Os-Cal one tablet q.d.
5.  Cozaar 50 mg per day.

ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to codeine which causes
nausea.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Significant for no fevers, no chills, no
dental problems.  [**Name (NI) **] history of stroke or TIA.  No syncope.
No orthopnea, no dyspnea on exertion, no DVTs, no peripheral
vascular disease.  Positive edema in her lower legs.
Positive claudication.  No cancer.  No diabetes.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is single, lives alone.  No tobacco.  No
ETOH.

LABORATORY AND RADIOLOGIC DATA:  Echocardiogram on [**2168-2-12**]
showed an EF of 45%, right and left atrial enlargement,
mitral valve showed redundantly split +3 MR, tricuspid valve
2+, tricuspid regurgitation.

The laboratory values at the outside hospital revealed a
white count of 6.6, hematocrit 32.6, platelet count 187,000.
Sodium 143, potassium 3.8, BUN 27, creatinine 1.3, glucose
85.

Chest x-ray showed evidence of CHF.

EKG was sinus rhythm with lateral ST changes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  The patient was an elderly
female in no acute distress.  Cardiac:  She had a grade
III/VI systolic murmur but was regular rate and rhythm.
Pulmonary:  The lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen:  Soft, benign, with no organomegaly.  Extremities:
The extremities showed right knee edema after a recent
arthroscopy.  The feet were warm.  There was no edema,
positive distal pulses.

ASSESSMENT/PLAN:  This is a 79-year-old female with
significant mitral valve regurgitation.  Will check an
echocardiogram this evening to evaluate left ventricular
function but the patient was preopped for cardiac surgery,
mitral valve replacement, in the morning with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].

The patient was seen by Cardiology the night of admission.
Cardiology did a stat echocardiogram which showed mild to
severe mitral regurgitation, signs of left ventricular volume
overload with a reduced EF 30-40%.  The recommendations were
to continue diuresis, try ACE or [**Last Name (un) **] once the patient has
recovered from surgery, continue Atenolol and aspirin.

On hospital day number one, the patient was brought to the
Operating Room on [**2169-5-19**] for MVR.  The patient tolerated
the procedure well and was transferred to the CRSU intubated,
on an epinephrine drip and a propofol drip with chest tubes.
The patient was weaned off the Neo drip that night.  The
patient was on nitroglycerin drip on and off for transient
hypertension.

On postoperative day number one, the patient was continued on
epinephrine and Nipride drip.  The patient was weaned on the
ventilator to CPAP 5/5.  The patient was given 2 units of
packed red cells overnight.  The patient was afebrile.  The
patient was currently being paced.  The white count was 14.5
postoperatively, crit was 32.8, platelet count 58,000.  The
rest of her laboratory values were within normal limits.  BUN
27, creatinine 1.6.

The patient was given 1 liter of crystalloid.  The plan was
to wean epinephrine to off and Nipride to off, continue chest
tubes and Foley.  The patient was started on Lopressor.  On
postoperative day number two, the patient's drips were
weaned.  The patient was on Lopressor and aspirin.  The
patient was also receiving vancomycin.  The patient was
extubated without issue.  The patient's vital signs were
stable.  The patient was on nasal cannula saturating 98%.

The patient had a jump in her creatinine from 1.6 to 2.6.
The patient was oliguric.  Vancomycin was removed.  A Renal
consult was begun.  The patient was on a Lasix drip at 10.

On postoperative day number three, the patient had an episode
of atrial fibrillation.  The patient was on dopamine drip of
2, Lasix.  The patient was in atrial fibrillation at a rate
in the 100s.  The patient's creatinine again increased to 3.9
from 2.6.  The patient was given Amiodarone bolus and started
on an Amiodarone drip.  The chest tubes were removed.  A HIT
panel was hit for a platelet count which had dropped to 29
and the HIT screen was sent and the patient was taken off of
heparin.

A Renal consult was obtained.  The recommendations of the
Renal Service were to maintain Lasix drip 80 IV b.i.d.,
consider decreasing all renal toxic medications, sending
urine cultures, checking daily weights, and a EKG to evaluate
for EF.

The patient was started on diurnal and Lasix with little
effect.  On postoperative day number four, the patient was on
an Amiodarone drip, was afebrile, heart rate was 80,
currently being paced.  The patient was on 2 liters nasal
cannula and was saturating 99%.  The patient's creatinine
again increased from 3.9 to 4.8.  The patient's HIT screen
was negative but was continued on precautions.  The patient
began making a small amount of urine.  Renal felt that the
patient would most likely need dialysis in the next one to
two days and that Lasix or diuretics would not alter the
course of renal recovery.

On postoperative day number five, the patient was transferred
to Amiodarone p.o., continued on Lasix and Lopressor,
continued to be paced.  The patient was started on a regular
diet.  The patient's creatinine once again increased from 4.8
to 5.7.  After holding heparin, the patient's platelet count
increased from 29 to 56.  The patient had a hemodialysis line
placed.  The patient was dialyzed.

On postoperative day number six, the patient was on a Neo
drip, Amiodarone p.o.  The patient was continued to be paced.
The patient's creatinine again jumped to 6.6.  The patient's
Swan was removed.  The patient was seen by Physical Therapy.

On postoperative day number seven, the patient had been
dialyzed.  The patient was on Amiodarone 400 per day.  The
patient's hematocrit had dropped to 24.9.  The patient was
transfused 1 unit of blood, continuing diuresis, and
continued dialysis.

On postoperative day number eight, the patient was off all
drips, was on Lasix 80 IV b.i.d., Amiodarone p.o., and
aspirin.  The patient continued to be paced.  The patient had
a decrease in BUN and creatinine 36 and 3.7.  The patient was
found to be HIT positive.  The patient was transferred to the
floor.  Upon transfer to the floor, the patient had the pace
box turned off.  The patient soon developed a rapid atrial
fibrillation.  The patient was placed again on an Amiodarone
drip and p.o. Amiodarone was discontinued.  The patient was
afebrile with stable vital signs otherwise.  The patient was
continued on metoprolol 12.5 b.i.d. and an Amiodarone drip
changed to p.o.  The patient was dialyzed again.

On postoperative day number ten, the patient was off
Amiodarone drip, on Amiodarone p.o., was in sinus rhythm, was
afebrile.  The vital signs were otherwise stable.  The
patient was making urine, approximately 1 liter per day.  The
patient had an increase in BUN and creatinine 29 and 2.8.
The patient was continued on dialysis.  Renal advised
increasing Lasix to 80 IV t.i.d.

The patient was seen by Cardiology, EP Service.  The
recommendations were to start anticoagulation on the patient
and the patient was started on an Argatroban drip.  The
patient was also started on Coumadin.

On postoperative day number 11, the patient was afebrile, was
still in sinus rhythm, was out of bed with physical therapy.
The patient