Admission Date:  [**2196-10-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2196-10-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2142-12-26**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 53-year-old
female with a history of coronary artery disease (status post
myocardial infarction times two and left anterior descending
artery stent), end-stage renal disease (on peritoneal
dialysis secondary to antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody
positive glomerulonephritis, status post transplant in [**2189**] which
failed), and hypertension who was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for worsening shortness of breath,
increased edema, and decreased oxygen saturations thought
secondary to malfunctioning peritoneal dialysis catheter.

The patient reports that the peritoneal dialysis catheter had
decreased drainage over the last two to three days prior to
admission.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Review of systems at the time of Medical
Intensive Care Unit admission was only positive for a slight
cough with minimal clear sputum.  Otherwise, no nausea,
vomiting, or diarrhea.  No fevers or chills.  No chest pain.
No palpitations.  No dizziness.  No pain or drainage at the
catheter site.

Initially, in the Emergency Department, the patient was found
to have oxygen saturation on room air of 92%.  The patient
was treated with 40 mg of intravenous Lasix and a
nitroglycerin drip with a decrease in her blood pressure.
The patient was then started on [**Hospital1 **]-level positive airway
pressure with correction of her oxygen saturations.  The
patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
catheter placement for hemodialysis for hypervolemia and
peritoneal cultures were obtained.

In the Medical Intensive Care Unit, a hemodialysis catheter
was placed and the patient received hemodialysis on the
evening of [**10-16**] and in the morning of [**10-17**].
The Renal team recommended giving the patient lactulose 30 mL
by mouth q.6h. times 24 hours for repositioning of the
peritoneal dialysis catheter and a repeat abdominal x-ray on
[**10-18**] in the morning to assess repositioning (the
dialysis catheter was possibly positioned too high in the
abdomen).

The patient was transferred to the Medicine Service today for
further management.

Currently, the patient is without complaints.  She denies any
shortness of breath, chest pain, nausea, or vomiting.  She
was given Kayexalate to decrease her potassium and now with
complaints of mild gassy pain.  The patient had a low-grade
temperature of 100.2 degrees Fahrenheit with no chills.  She
does have a cough with clear sputum.  Otherwise, review of
systems was negative.  The patient had eight bowel movements
today after Kayexalate.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  End-stage renal disease (on peritoneal dialysis for the
last two to three years).  This secondary to positive
antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody and positive
glomerulonephritis status post transplant in [**2189**] which
failed.  The patient was temporarily switched from peritoneal
dialysis to hemodialysis in [**2196-8-24**] secondary to
ventral hernia repair.
 2.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction times two with stents to the left anterior
descending artery.
 3.  Hypertension.
 4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 5.  Scleroderma.
 6.  Chronic right upper lobe mass.
 7.  Claudication.
 8.  Gastrointestinal bleed secondary to anticoagulation.
 9.  Cardiomyopathy.
10.  Status post ventral hernia repair.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: (Medications prior to admission
included)
 1.  Zestril 5 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Lipitor 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Calcitriol.
 4.  Iron supplements 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Nephrocaps.
 6.  Epogen.
 7.  Senna.
 8.  Colace.
 9.  Lactulose as needed.
10.  Renagel.
11.  Toprol-XL.
12.  Potassium supplements 10 mEq by mouth once per day.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  (Medications on transfer to the
floor included)
 1.  Colace 100 mg by mouth twice per day.
 2.  Senna one to two tablets by mouth twice per day.
 3.  Doxercalciferol 2.5 mcg by mouth every day.
 4.  Iron supplements 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Sevelamer 800 mg by mouth three times per day.
 6.  Nephrocaps one tablet by mouth once per day.
 7.  Protonix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Atorvastatin 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 9.  Toprol-XL 25 mg by mouth once per day.
10.  Epogen 15,000 units two times per week (on Sunday and
Tuesday).
11.  Calcium carbonate 1250 mg by mouth three times per day
12.  Lisinopril 5 mg by mouth once per day.
13.  Lactulose 30 mL by mouth four times per day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her husband and two
children.  She smokes one half of a pack of cigarettes per
day.  Still with occasional alcohol use.  No intravenous drug
abuse.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history was noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient's temperature was 101.2 degrees
Fahrenheit, her blood pressure was 145/78 (with a range of
112 to 145/55 to 78), her heart rate was 68 to 84, her
respiratory rate was 16 to 22, and her oxygen saturation was
97% on room air.  In general, the patient was alert and
oriented times three.  She was sitting comfortably and
eating.  She was in no apparent distress.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose, and throat examination revealed pupils were equal,
round, and reactive to light.  The extraocular movements were
intact.  The oropharynx was clear.  No lesions.  No exudates.
The mucous membranes were moist.  The neck was supple and
nontender.  No jugular venous distention.  No
lymphadenopathy.  Pulmonary examination revealed bibasilar
crackles.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate
and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  The abdomen was
soft, mildly distended, nontender, with positive peritoneal
dialysis catheter in place with no drainage.  There were
normal active bowel sounds.  Extremity examination revealed
needed.  No calf tenderness.  Dorsalis pedis and posterior
tibialis pulses were present bilaterally in the lower
extremities.  Positive contractures in the left and right
hands and feet; consistent with scleroderma.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed the patient's white blood cell count was
8.9, her hematocrit was 28.1, and her platelets were 152.
The patient's sodium was 139, potassium was 5.1 (this sample
was hemolyzed; previous sample was 4.2 just a few hours
prior), chloride was 101, bicarbonate was 26, blood urea
nitrogen was 43, creatinine was 10.3, and blood glucose was
87.  Her calcium was 8.6, her magnesium was 2.3, and her
phosphorous was 5.4.  Hepatitis B surface antigen was
negative.  Her creatine kinases were 56 and 48.  Her troponin
was 0.12 and 0.15.  Her lactate level was 1.5.  Peritoneal
dialysis catheter fluid showed Gram stain with 2+
polymorphonuclear leukocytes, no microorganisms, and the
culture was pending.

ASSESSMENT:  The patient is a 53-year-old female with a
history of coronary artery disease and end-stage renal
disease (on peritoneal dialysis) who was admitted for
pulmonary edema to the Medical Intensive Care Unit.  This was
most likely secondary to malpositioned peritoneal dialysis
catheter.  The patient was transferred to the Medicine floor
for further management.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  MALPOSITIONED PERITONEAL DIALYSIS CATHETER ISSUES:  The
Renal Service was consulted and followed the patient closely.
A repeat abdominal x-ray after the morning of transfer on
[**10-18**] did not show improvement in the positioning of
the peritoneal dialysis catheter; although, the catheter had
indeed moved from the upper abdomen to the lower abdomen.

Lactulose 30 mL by mouth four times per day was initially
given to increase gut motility in the hopes that the
peritoneal dialysis catheter would reposition itself, but
this was subsequently decreased in frequency of dosing and
was only used as needed for constipation after it was shown
to not be effective in repositioning the catheter.

Transplant Surgery Service was consulted to assess the
necessity for surgical repositioning of the catheter, and
they dete