Admission Date:  [**2115-12-1**]     Discharge Date:  [**2115-12-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2049-10-29**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
woman with a history of hyperlipidemia, hypertension,
peripheral vascular disease, and smoking with no known
history of coronary artery disease.

The patient was doing well until she awoke on the day of
admission (on [**2115-12-1**]).  The patient awoke at 5 a.m.
with chest pain and diaphoresis.  The patient later collapsed
in front of her husband.  [**Name (NI) **] performed limited
cardiopulmonary resuscitation per report (not adequate
cardiopulmonary resuscitation) for approximately 10 minutes
until Emergency Medical Service arrived.

The patient was found in ventricular fibrillation arrest by
Emergency Medical Service.  Flow sheets not currently
available.  The patient was defibrillated and rhythm became
asystole.  The patient was intubated in the field.  The
patient was given epinephrine and converted back to
ventricular fibrillation.  The patient was shocked again and
started on a lidocaine drip.

The patient was taken to [**Hospital3 **] Emergency
Department at 0555.  In the Emergency Department, the patient
was in pulseless electrical activity arrest.  The patient was
treated with epinephrine with restoration of pulse and blood
pressure.  The patient went into wide complex tachycardia
then narrow complex.  The patient was started on amiodarone
drip, a heparin drip, and an Integrilin drip.  The patient
was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
Catheterization Laboratory.

In the Catheterization Laboratory found 95% stenosis with
thrombus in major obtuse marginal.  Treated with stent.
Right heart catheterization demonstrated cardiogenic shock.
An intra-aortic balloon pump inserted and a nitroglycerin
drip was started for blood pressure control.  The patient was
sent to the Coronary Care Unit.  Now intubated, on an
amiodarone drip, heparin drip, Integrilin drip, with
intra-aortic balloon pump in place.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Peripheral vascular disease; status post left
femoral-to-popliteal in [**2113**].
2.  Hypercholesterolemia.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Tremor.
5.  Status post hysterectomy.
6.  Status post lumpectomy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at home included
propanolol, Lipitor, and an ACE inhibitor.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Medications on transfer included
propanolol, Lipitor, ACE inhibitor, amiodarone drip,
intravenous heparin, and intravenous Integrilin.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history is unknown.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a +50-pack-year smoking
history.  Occasional alcohol use.  She lives with her
husband.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient's weight was 74.6 kilograms, temperature
was 95.2 degrees Fahrenheit axillary, his heart rate was 103,
her blood pressure was 136/48, her respiratory rate was 25,
and her oxygen saturation was 100%.  The patient was on the
following ventilator settings; synchronized intermittent
mandatory ventilation and pressure support 24.5/0.5.
Arterial blood gas was 7.22/42/337 on intra-aortic balloon
pump 1:1.  In general, the patient was intubated and in no
acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed pupils were faintly reactive to light.
Cardiovascular examination revealed distant heart sounds but
a regular rate and rhythm.  The lungs revealed a few crackles
at the bases.  The abdomen was mildly distended, soft, and
nontender.  Bowel sounds were present.  No
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremity examination revealed the
extremities were cold with nonpalpable pulses.  Neurologic
examination revealed the patient withdrew to pain; intubated.
Patellar reflexes were 1+ bilaterally.  Pupil equal 4 mm,
sluggish, rolled back.  No corneal reflex (per nursing).

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram here at 1023
revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 99, normal axis, and normal
intervals.  There were T wave inversions in leads II, III,
and aVF.  There was T wave flattening in V4, V5, and V6.

Echocardiogram preliminary read revealed an ejection fraction
of 35% to 40%, inferior and apical akinesis.

Final [**Location (un) 1131**] of echocardiogram revealed left ventricular
cavity size was top normal/borderline dilated and overall
left ventricular systolic function was severely depressed
(with an estimated ejection fraction of less than 25%?).
These were technically suboptimal.  There was lateral and
inferior akinesis and septal and apical hypokinesis/akinesis.
The anterior wall may also be hypokinetic but was not fully
visualized.  The right ventricular chamber size was normal.
The function appeared preserved (not fully seen).  The aortic
valve was not well visualized.  There was probable mild to 1+
mitral regurgitation (view suboptimal).  There was no
pericardial effusion.

Catheterization results revealed (1) severe systolic and
diastolic ventricular dysfunction; (2) acute inferoposterior
myocardial infarction; (3) Hepacoat stent to major obtuse
marginal with 95% to 0% residual; and, (4) intra-aortic
balloon pump placed.  Hemodynamics revealed right atrium 9,
pulmonary artery 48/30, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure
34, aortic 133/100, cardiac output 2.5, cardiac index 1.41.

Electroencephalogram on [**2115-12-1**] revealed
abnormalities as follows; (1) Throughout this recording,
background rhythms were severely suppressed, and no change
was seen in response to noxious stimulation.  The recording
contaminated with apparent muscle artifact frequently.  (2)
The suppressed background was interrupted by frequent bursts
occurring every five to fifteen seconds and Doppler frequency
slowing seen in a generalized fashion.   No sharp features
were associated with these bursts.  Each burst lasted
approximately one to one and a half seconds.  IMPRESSION:
This is a markedly abnormal electroencephalogram due to the
bursts suppression countered with brief bursts interrupting
the suppressed background every five to fifteen seconds.  No
reactivity was seen in response to noxious stimulation.  No
epileptiform features were seen.  These findings suggested
the presence of severe encephalopathy.  The common causes of
severe encephalopathy include medications, metabolic causes,
infections, and hypoxic and ischemic insults.

Electroencephalogram on [**2115-12-6**] revealed
abnormalities as follows:  (1) Throughout this recording at
normal electroencephalogram settings, the background rhythms
were extremely suppressed.  There was no evidence of any
electrical activity or cerebral origin present; (2) In an
attempt to bring out any low voltage activity of cerebral
origin, the sensitivity was reset to 2 UV and recording took
place.  During this time, once again, there was no definite
electrical activity cerebral in origin.  There was a great
deal of muscle artifact present throughout.  In addition,
during this time the patient was stimulated both with
auditory and painful stimulation.  There was no response to
auditory stimulation and no withdrawal response to pain from
stimulus only.  There was no change in background rhythms or
electrical activity which emerged during stimulation.
IMPRESSION:  This was a markedly abnormal EEG suggestive of
severe encephalopathy.  There was no electrical activity of
cerebral origin detected during this recording.  These
findings were consistent the patient's known history of
severe anoxic brain injury.

A CT of the head without contrast done on [**2115-12-2**];
findings without prior study for comparison, considering the
patient's age, there was apparent effacement of the sulci
diffusely throughout the brain parenchymas suggestive of
possible globus swelling.  No global areas of hypodensity are
appreciated to suggest regional or global infarctions,
respectively, at this time.  There was no shift of the
normally midline structures. No intracranial hemorrhages
appreciated.   IMPRESSION:  Apparent global effacement of
sulci suggestive of global swelling.  No evidence of global
or regional infarctions at this time.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
fro