Admission Date:  [**2101-6-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2101-7-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2029-12-9**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine - [**Doctor Last Name **]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath and lower extremity
edema.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 71 year old
male with a history of diabetes Type 2, congestive heart
failure, atrial fibrillation who presented with a two week
history of increasing progressive shortness of breath.  He
was in his usual state of health prior to two weeks ago and
he could perform all of his activities of daily living
without dyspnea on exertion.  Shortness of breath with
walking several steps or stairs has developed over the last
two weeks.  Furthermore there was increase in lower extremity
swelling after two days.  Review of systems was also positive
for paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea as well as orthopnea.  The
patient states he has never had these symptoms before.  He
denies chest pain.  There is also an increase in scrotal
swelling as well as abdominal girth associated with his
decrease in his appetite.  He is not complaining of fever,
chills, cough, bright red blood per rectum, melena, dysuria,
frequency, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Diabetes Type 2; 2.  Congestive
heart failure, there is an old discharge summary with
reference to a past ejection fraction noted at 35%; 3.
Atrial fibrillation on Coumadin for 17 years; 4.  Gout; 5.
Hypertension; 6.  Status post left hip replacement; 7.  Prior
silent myocardial infarction (anterior septal); 8.  Past
admission on [**4-7**] for shortness of breath and rule out
myocardial infarction.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Coumadin 2.5 mg q. day
2.  Digoxin 250 mcg q. day
3.  Allopurinol 300 mg q. day
4.  Colchicine 0.6 mg q. day
5.  Glipizide 5 mg q. day
6.  Lasix 80 mg q. day
7.  Zaroxolyn 2.5 mg q. day
8.  Captopril 25 mg b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone but in the same
building as his daughter.  [**Name (NI) **] is retired.  He denies current
alcohol use, however, he was a "drinker" in the past when his
children were teenagers.  He has been a cigar smoker for the
last 50 years.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was non-contributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature was 99.5, heartrate 69,
blood pressure 132/62, respirations 22, oxygen saturation 96%
on room air.  General, the patient is lying comfortably in no
acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat, pupils
are equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular motions
were intact.  Oropharynx clear.  Neck, obese.  Prominent
irregular jugular pulse.  jugulovenous pressure is not easily
discernible, however, it is elevated.  Cardiovascular,
irregularly irregular heartrate with a II/VI holosystolic
murmur at the left upper sternal border.  Respiratory,
decreased air movement and inspiratory and expiratory wheezes
at lower half of chest bilaterally.  Bibasilar crackles,
right greater than left.  Abdomen, obese, distended.
Positive bowel sounds, soft, nontender.  Genitourinary,
pleural edema, per Emergency Department examination.
Extremities, 2+ lower extremity edema to the calf
bilaterally.  Neurological, alert and appropriate.  Cranial
nerves II through XII intact with no gross motor defects.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 6.5, hematocrit
34.6, platelets 158, MCV 90, differential 65 neutrophils, 21%
lymphocytes.  PT 17.3, INR 2.1, sodium 141, potassium 2.2,
chloride 101, bicarbonate 27, BUN 53, creatinine 1.4, glucose
104.  CPK 126, troponin 1.1 to 1.5, Digoxin 1.1.  Chest
x-ray, there was no evidence of congestive heart failure or
infiltrate on the examination.  Electrocardiogram, atrial
fibrillation at 77 beats/minute, poor R wave progression.
Left anterior vesicular block with left axis deviation, mild
ST increased in V1 to V2, however, the electrocardiogram is
unchanged from [**6-6**].

ASSESSMENT:  This is a 71 year old male with a history of
congestive heart failure (low ejection fraction by report),
atrial fibrillation, diabetes Type 2 who presented with
progressive shortness of breath over a two week period along
with dramatic lower extremity swelling and scrotal edema
consistent with congestive heart failure exacerbation.  The
clear chest x-ray is not surprising as this is a compensated
congestive heart failure.  Also with a troponin leak up to
1.5 which is likely secondary to strain from a heart failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiac - The patient was admitted to
rule out myocardial infarction and to work up and treat the
congestive heart failure exacerbation.  Diuresis was begun
with intravenous Lasix with good response.  A transthoracic
echocardiogram showed markedly decreased left ventricular
systolic function with an ejection fraction of 20 to 25% as
well as decrease in right ventricular systolic function.  His
clinical examination, however, was most consistent with right
heart failure with increased neck veins and lower extremity
edema.  His Captopril was titrated up.  Cardiology was
consulted to work up potential ischemic cause of congestive
heart failure exacerbation and he underwent the right and
left heart catheterization (after adequate diuresis and
holding the Coumadin and Lovenox) on [**2101-7-4**].  While
the Coumadin was held, the Lovenox was started, however, it
was held one day prior to the procedure and begun one day
after the procedure.  Catheterization showed no significant
coronary artery disease but severely elevated right and left
filling pressures without evidence of constriction or
restriction, left ventricular end diastolic pressure of 32
mm/hg, ejection fraction of 20%, mild mitral regurgitation,
severe global hypokinesis, moderate pulmonary hypertension.
Causes for nonischemic cardiomyopathy including
hemachromatosis, amyloid and thyroid disease were ruled out
and with his history of prior alcohol use it is likely this
is secondary to ethyl alcohol.  Coumadin was restarted on
[**7-6**].

Then, on [**7-7**], the patient developed a rapidly growing
hematoma at the right groin site where his femoral artery and
vein were accessed for catheterization.  Ultrasound showed a
pseudoaneurysm of the right femoral artery.  Vascular Surgery
was immediately contact[**Name (NI) **] and he emergently went to the
Operating Room for repair of this common femoral artery
pseudoaneurysm (Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].  The patient was admitted to the
Cardiac Intensive Care Unit status post surgery to be
monitored over night where he recovered without incident and
was extubated and returned to the floor on [**7-9**].  By
[**7-13**], his fluid status was much improved.  His Captopril
was changed to Lisinopril and he was tolerating Lisinopril 10
q. day (20 q. day caused blood pressure to drop), Digoxin was
decreased as his chronic renal insufficiency was worse and he
was on a rather high dose as an outpatient.  Coumadin was
restarted on [**7-11**].  Of note, his admission weight was
197 lbs and had decreased to 186.5 lbs on discharge.  Of note
he also had many episodes of nonsustained ventricular
tachycardia and ventricular tachycardia which were
asymptomatic.  He may need to be considered for an
electrophysiology study in the future.

2.  Heme - The patient was on Coumadin for many years for
atrial fibrillation.  This was held prior to the
catheterization and his INR was 1.2 the day of the procedure.
He was briefly on Lovenox which was complicated by a right
groin hematoma, three to four days status post
catheterization.  He resumed his Coumadin greater than 48
hours status post repair of the artery and his INR was 1.25
at discharge.  His Coumadin will need to be titrated to a
goal of INR 2 to 3 in rehabilitation.

3.  Gout - His medications were held during the initial
diuresis and he experienced a flare in his right knee and
then in his left knee with lowgrade temperatures twice during
his stay.  This resolved with the addition of Colchicine prn.

4.  Endocrine - The patient has a history of diabetes
mellitus Type 2, his blood sugars, however, were very well
controlled during his hospital stay on Glipizide.

5.  Renal - His baseline creatinine seems to b