Admission Date:  [**2144-11-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2144-12-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2076-7-31**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 68 year old
male with a past medical history of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease as well as Methicillin resistant
Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia, who was admitted to the
Emergency Room after being found unresponsive at his nursing
home at 10:15 on the morning of admission.  He was found to
be lethargic.  He was given [**Location (un) 2452**] juice and nebulizers,
without any improvement in his mental status.  He was
transferred to the Emergency Room.

In the Emergency Room, the patient was given vancomycin and
ceftriaxone and intubated for decreased mental status as well
as hypercarbia with arterial blood gases of 7.2, 83, 44 on
four liters nasal cannula.  He also received two and one-half
liters of fluid and was admitted to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit for further evaluation and treatment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.  2.  Coronary artery disease.  3.  Congestive heart
failure.  4.  Cerebrovascular accident.  5.  Hypertension.
6.  Noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.  7.  Peripheral
vascular disease.  8.  Bilateral below the knee amputations.
9.  Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia.
10.  Phantom limb pain.  11.  Osteomyelitis.  12.
Parkinson's disease.  13.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Simvastatin, Sinemet, zinc
sulfate, vitamin C, pantoprazole, digoxin, aspirin,
lisinopril, multivitamins, Glucotrol, MS Contin, Beclovent,
Combivent, Neurontin, Lopressor, regular insulin sliding
scale, Risperdal, Remeron, Klonopin, Percocet, Atrovent,
albuterol, Mylanta and Tylenol.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a resident of a nursing
facility.  His primary care physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination on admission,
the patient had a temperature of 104.8, pulse 88, blood
pressure 76/64.  General:  Patient intubated, on pressure
support of 15, PEEP 5, FiO2 100%.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat:  Pupils small and reactive to light, oropharynx
extremely dry.  Neck:  Supple, flat neck veins.  Chest:
Rhonchi throughout, decreased breath sounds at both bases.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm, III/VI systolic
ejection murmur.  Abdomen:  Soft, scaphoid, guaiac negative.
Extremities:  Bilateral below the knee amputations, right 1.5
cm round shallow ulcer on right stump without any tracking
erythema or drainage.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission white blood cell count was 10.5,
hematocrit 46.3, platelet count 151, sodium 142, potassium
7.3, repeat 4.4, chloride 104, bicarbonate 31, BUN 47,
creatinine 1 and glucose 60.  Urinalysis showed specific
gravity of 1.003, nitrite positive with moderate bacteria, 1
white blood cell, 1 red blood cell.  Chest x-ray showed
parahilar prominence, bibasilar interstitial process
consistent with aspiration pneumonia as well as pulmonary
edema.  Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at 100 beats
per minute with a left axis deviation, no acute ST wave
changes; no old electrocardiogram available for comparison.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was brought to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit intubated in respiratory failure with
underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; also,
likely pneumonia.  He eventually grew Methicillin resistant
Staphylococcus aureus out of his sputum and was treated with
a two week course of vancomycin.  He also had a clotted right
PICC line at the time of admission, which was removed and
eventually grew out [**Female First Name (un) 564**].  He was treated with two weeks
of fluconazole.

The patient was also noted on chest x-ray to have evidence of
a right pneumothorax.  Surgery was called to place a chest
tube, which drained transudative fluids for multiple days,
and was eventually removed.  The patient also had his course
complicated by self-extubation with several days of
increasing respiratory distress.  He was eventually
reintubated and underwent bronchoscopy.

The patient was also found to have a clot in his right
internal jugular, for which he was started on a heparin drip.
He also had a PICC line placed in the right arm.  The patient
was doing better after a several week course.  However, he
then began to spike multiple fevers again.  He had a repeat
bronchoscopy which showed left lower lobe collapse.  He then
grew Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus out of his
sputum once again.  He also had gram negative rods in his
sputum which turned out to be E. coli, sensitive to
ceftriaxone and ceftazidime.  He was started on antibiotics
again.

The patient also grew Providencia stuartii in his urine and,
when his arterial line was removed on [**2144-12-8**], he
grew gram positive, likely Staphylococcus, from his blood.
The patient continued to do poorly despite aggressive
antibiotic therapy.  His white blood cell count increased to
27.  His urine output decreased.  His pressures dropped into
the 40s systolic.  He was started on Dopamine.  His pressure
still did not respond and he required Levophed,
Neo-Synephrine and Vasopressin.

Despite all of these blood pressure medications, the patient
became increasingly lethargic, despite also being on
ceftazidime and gentamicin.  His primary care physician was
called.  Code status was changed to "Do Not Resuscitate".
The patient continued to do poorly.  An electrocardiogram
showed no acute changes.  A chest x-ray showed increasing
evidence of failure, likely the patient went back into acute
respiratory distress syndrome, became increasingly septic and
unresponsive.  Eventually his code status was changed to
comfort measures only.

The patient was placed on a morphine drip and his pressure
support was discontinued.  The patient expired at 9:35 a.m.
on [**2144-12-10**].

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Deceased.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  None.



                                [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 2671**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 37561**], M.D. [**MD Number(1) 37562**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info **]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2144-12-10**]  11:37
T:  [**2144-12-14**]  09:24
JOB#:  [**Job Number 37563**]
