Admission Date:  [**2189-11-23**]     Discharge Date:  [**2189-12-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2131-3-10**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58-year-old
gentleman with type 1 diabetes mellitus times 25 years
complicated by retinopathy, neuropathy, and nephropathy.  The
patient is on hemodialysis on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday
with a history of a myocardial infarction (status post
coronary artery bypass graft in [**2185**]), congestive heart
failure (systolic failure) with last ejection fraction of
40%, history of hypertension, and history of
hypercholesterolemia.  The patient is very high on the list
to receive a kidney and pancreas transplant.

The patient presented to the [**Hospital1 188**] Emergency Department via Emergency Medical Service
secondary to a 30-minute episodes of sudden loss of vision,
and orientation to place, and a very cold feeling.  He denied
chest pain, dizziness, shortness of breath, and diaphoresis.
he reported lower extremity paresthesias and lower extremity
weakness.  He denied any falls.

The patient had this experience and called Emergency Medical
Service.  His glucose was found to be 40.  He was given one
ampule of D-50, and his glucose went up to 74.  His symptoms
resolved over the next 40 minutes.  In the Emergency
Department, the patient's rectal temperature was 94.2 degrees
Fahrenheit.  He received one dose of levofloxacin 500 mg and
Flagyl 500 mg.

The patient's reports his baseline status includes some
shortness of breath with walking up stairs and distant
walking, but he would quantify further.  He denied a history
of chest pain.  He did not check his daily weights.  He
sometimes follows a low-sodium diet.  He denies any lower
extremity edema at baseline.  He recently had two weeks of
abdominal pain and was still achy on his right side which
occasionally radiated around to his back but never to his
groin area.  He found no relationship with pain to meals or
bowel movements.  He denied diarrhea, constipation, melena,
or bright red blood per rectum.  He denied nausea or
vomiting.  He reported a good appetite, and his weight has
been unchanged.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 1 diabetes mellitus times 20 years; followed by the
[**Hospital **] Clinic with retinopathy, neuropathy, and nephropathy.
2.  Chronic renal failure; on hemodialysis on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday at [**Location (un) 4265**] in [**Location (un) **].
3.  Congestive heart failure with last recorded ejection
fraction of 40%; systolic failure but likely also a component
of diastolic failure.
4.  Peripheral neuropathy.
5.  Autonomic neuropathy.
6.  Hypertension.
7.  Hypercholesterolemia.
8.  Recent outside hospital admission for congestive heart
failure and pneumonia in [**2189-6-4**].
9.  Candidate for a kidney and pancreas transplant; followed
closely by the Transplant Service.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Lantus 26 units subcutaneously taken at hour of sleep.
 2.  Regular insulin sliding-scale.
 3.  Renagel 800-mg tablets three tablets by mouth three
times per day.
 4.  Prilosec 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Diovan 80 mg by mouth twice per day.
 6.  Zoloft 50 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Phos-Lo 660-mg tablets three tablets by mouth three
times per day (with meals).
 8.  Procardia 90 mg by mouth in the morning and 60 mg by
mouth in the evening.
 9.  Labetalol 200 mg by mouth twice per day.
10.  Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once per day.
11.  Aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day.
12.  Quinine 260 mg on hemodialysis days.

ALLERGIES:  The patient reports allergies to AUGMENTIN (which
causes nausea and vomiting).

FAMILY HISTORY:   The patient has multiple family members
with diabetes mellitus.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives at home with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **]
has one daughter in her late 20s.  He volunteers frequently
and works part time at Thylline Placement in [**Location (un) **].  He
has a 30-pack-year history of smoking, but he quit a couple
of years ago.  He has a past history of alcohol, but no
history of abuse.  No history of illicit substance abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Vital signs on
admission revealed the patient's temperature was 94.2 degrees
Fahrenheit rectally, temperature was 92.2 degrees Fahrenheit
orally, his blood pressure was 216/60, his heart rate was 84,
his respiratory rate was 16, and his oxygen saturation was
98% on room air.  In general, the patient was alert and
sitting up.  He was a very tanned male.  The patient was
pleasant and talkative.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed sclerae were anicteric with pink
conjunctivae.  The mucous membranes were moist.  Positive
jugular venous distention and jugular venous pulsation up to
the mandible at 45 degrees elevations.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed he had a regular rate and rhythm.  A 2/6
systolic murmur at the left sternal border heard best at the
diaphragm.  No third heart sound or fourth heart sound
appreciated.  No rubs appreciated.  Respiratory examination
revealed the lungs were clear to auscultation but had some
posterior crackles that were fine which migrated half the way
up posteriorly.  The abdomen was obese.  Bowel sounds were
present.  The abdomen was nondistended.  Tenderness to
palpation in the left lower quadrant and right lower
quadrant.  Positive guarding.  No rebound.  Extremity
examination revealed extremities were warm, dry, and no
edema.  Radial and dorsalis pedis pulses were 2+ bilaterally
and equal.  On neurologic examination, the patient was alert
and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves II through XII were
grossly intact.  His strength and reflexes had been assessed
on admission.  The patient had a left arm fistula without
erythema or tenderness.   Ophthalmologic examination revealed
20/200 in the left eye and 20/40 in the right eye.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   There were no
significant laboratory studies on admission.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The patient had a computed
tomography of the abdomen and pelvis which revealed a
calcified internal mammary artery, and no diverticulitis
throughout.

IMPRESSION:  The patient is a 58-year-old gentleman with
multiple medical problems with hypoglycemia, hypothermia, and
abdominal pain; thought to be a presyncopal episode.

The differential included infection (either gastrointestinal,
genitourinary, or through his arteriovenous fistula) as well
as hypoglycemia secondary to too much insulin or a
malfunctioning home glucometer; all of which would be a
diagnosis of exclusion.

The patient had no evidence of congestive heart failure on
examination.  He was admitted for rule out for myocardial
infarction.  The patient had a computed tomography of the
abdomen which had been in the Emergency Department which
eventually ruled out diverticulitis as a source of his
abdominal pain.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  To rule out infection,
multiple blood cultures were sent.  The patient's white blood
cell count on admission was 9.6 (with 80% neutrophils, 10%
lymphocytes, and no bands).

At the time of admission, the patient had some chest pain in
the Emergency Department.  An electrocardiogram done at that
time revealed some peak T waves, poor R wave progression,
sinus rhythm at a rate of 72, normal intervals.  A chest
x-ray revealed cardiomegaly and no effusions or evidence for
congestive heart failure.  The patient's troponins were
cycled and were 0.12 and 0.14.  Creatine kinase and MB
values, however, were negative times three sets over 24
hours.  It was felt that the patient likely had baseline
elevated troponin due to his chronic renal insufficiency and
history of congestive heart failure.

That evening, while being monitored on telemetry, the patient
had a 7-beat run of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.
The patient was asymptomatic throughout this episode by his
report, and no other ectopy was noted.  Electrolytes were
repleted and monitored carefully.

Even though the patient was ruled out for a myocardial
infarction, an Electrophysiology consultation was called.
Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 284**] saw the patient and felt that the
question of