Admission Date:  [**2129-10-14**]       Discharge Date: [**2129-11-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2055-5-22**]       Sex:  M

Service:

The patient presumed to be discharged to rehabilitation
facility.  Given the patient's worsening shortness of breath
and rising creatinine, the patient remained in house for
appropriate workup.  Creatinine continued to rise from 2.8 to
4.4 with worsening shortness of breath.  X-ray shows signs of
significant congestive heart failure.  The patient was
aggressively diuresed although limited due to the patient's
renal failure.  Renal consultation was obtained which
initially showed acute tubular necrosis with numerous muddy
brown casts in the urine.  The decision to use Lasix to
reduce congestive symptomatology as well as a contributor to
the patient's worsening renal failure.  The patient was ruled
out by cardiac enzymes, initiated on Nesiritide which showed
improved urine output.  Decision to hold on hemodialysis at
the time was made.  The patient continued to improve from a
respiratory standpoint.  On day ten, the patient was shown to
have acute mental status change, nonresponsive to painful
stimulation.  The patient was transferred back to the CCU and
intubated.  Upon intubation, the patient seemed to become
reoriented.  Arterial blood gases were normal.  Blood
cultures on the [**2129-10-28**], [**2129-10-29**], and [**2129-10-30**], positive
for four out of four culture sets positive for Methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus.  Three days of significant
bacteremia, was started on Vancomycin and renally dosed
Gentamicin.  Mental status improved.  The patient was
extubated the following day.  Electroencephalogram was
obtained which showed changes suggestive of chronic metabolic
encephalopathy without evidence of seizure disorder. CT of
the head revealed absence of bleed or lesion.  The patient
continued to improve and remain culture negative.  Decision
to transfer back to the floor and transfer to care of
Medicine was made at this time.  Finish seven day course of
Gentamicin and awaited decrease in leukocytosis prior to
inserting long term indwelling line for hemodialysis.  The
patient was transferred to general medicine [**Hospital1 **] for further
workup of acute on chronic renal failure, Methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia, metabolic
encephalopathy.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 15176**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 15177**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 972**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2129-11-16**]  20:14
T:  [**2129-11-16**]  20:38
JOB#:  [**Job Number 25156**]
