Admission Date: [**2150-4-17**]        Discharge Date: [**2150-5-16**]

Date of Birth:  [**2077-11-8**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypotension.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 72-year-old woman with an EF
of 30% and a history of CAD who presented to her PCP's office
complaining of abdominal pain. Recommended to be seen in the
emergency room to rule out a splenic infarct. An abdominal CT
at that time showed a LV thrombus. Labs revealed elevated
cardiac enzymes, and she was admitted to the ICU at an
outside hospital where she was begun on a dopamine infusion
given relative hypotension following which she went into a
sinus tachycardia and was then transferred to [**Hospital **] [**Hospital **]
[**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] for further workup and evaluation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hypertension,
cardiomyopathy, cholecystectomy.

ALLERGIES:  Include CEPHALOSPORIN'S and PENICILLIN.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Include Neo-Synephrine infusion,
Levophed infusion, aspirin, Zestril, Colace, Lopressor, Zocor
at home.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

INITIAL COURSE:  The patient was brought to the cardiac
catheterization lab in cardiogenic shock where she was found
to have a 90% left main, a 60% proximal LAD, 70% mid
circumflex, and 100% proximal RCA lesions, as well as 2 to 3+
MR. [**First Name (Titles) 6**] [**Last Name (Titles) 61101**] balloon pump was placed, and the patient
was intubated; following which CT surgery was consulted, and
the patient was brought emergently to the operating room for
high-risk coronary artery bypass grafting.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical exam with patient on cardiac
catheterization table sedated at the time. Blood pressure of
80/60, heart rate of 100 (sinus), respirations (ventilated).
Physical exam revealed a height of 5 feet 2 inches, weight of
51 kilograms. Cardiac revealed S1 and S2. Respiratory
revealed coarse rales on anterior examination. The abdomen
was soft, nontender, and nondistended. Pulses revealed 1+
femoral without bruits bilaterally. Extremities with trace
edema.

RADIOLOGIC STUDIES:  Echocardiogram showed 2 to 3+ MR [**First Name (Titles) 151**]
[**Last Name (Titles) 61102**] LV function. As stated previously, cardiac
catheterization showed a tight left main with occlusive RCA
disease as well as circumflex and LAD disease.

LABORATORY DATA:  Sodium of 142, potassium of 3.5, BUN of 13,
creatinine of 0.6. White count of 13, hematocrit of 40,
platelets of 521. Troponin was 8.15. CK/MB was 12.5.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  As stated, the patient was immediately
brought to the operating room for emergent coronary artery
bypass grafting and mitral valve repair. Please see the OR
report for full details. In summary, she had a CABG x 2 with
a vein graft to the LAD and a vein graft to the OM, as well
as mitral repair with a #26 annuloplasty ring. Her bypass
time was 129 minutes with a cross-clamp time of 71 minutes.
It should be noted that the patient suffered cardiac arrest
upon induction in the operating room. The patient tolerated
the operation, was weaned off bypass, and brought to the
cardiothoracic intensive care unit from the operating room.
At the time of transfer the patient was AV paced at 98 beats
per minute with a mean arterial pressure of 95 and a PAD of
26. She had Levophed at 0.15 mcg/kg/min, milrinone at 0.75
mcg/kg/min, epinephrine at 0.5 mcg/kg/min, vasopressin at 3
units per hour, propofol at 20 mcg/kg/min, insulin at 2 units
per hour, and an [**Last Name (Titles) 61101**] balloon pump at 1:1.

Upon arrival in the cardiothoracic intensive care unit it was
noted that the patient had cold lower extremities. At that
time, a vascular surgery consult was called. It was felt that
the cold extremities were related to her [**Last Name (Titles) 61101**] balloon
pump which was then weaned and removed. The patient continued
to have cold lower extremities, and on postoperative day 1
was brought back to the operating room where she underwent
bilateral thrombectomies. Additionally, a neurology consult
was called to rule out stroke due to pupils that were noted
to be fixed and dilated. The patient was brought emergently
to CAT scan which showed no hemorrhage and old lacunar
abnormality. Additionally, the patient was noted to be in
acute renal failure, and a renal consult was called at that
time. CVVHD was also initiated at that time.

The patient continued to do poorly over the next few days
with little, if any, return of blood flow to her lower
extremities. On postoperative day 4, she returned to the
operating room at which time she underwent bilateral
amputations. Following her amputations the patient's
condition improved slowly initially. She was able to be
weaned off some of her pressors. Her acute renal failure
resolved. Her CVVHD was slowly weaned and ultimately
discontinued. Her bilateral amputations were debrided on
multiple occasions, and ultimately revision and flap closure
was done on [**4-26**].

Over the next 2 weeks following flap closure of her
amputations, the patient was slowly weaned from the
ventilator. All of her pressors were being weaned off during
the period between her initial amputations and flap closures.
During that period she did continue to have an elevated white
blood cell count with no known source identified. She was
followed by the infectious disease service throughout this
period and treated with vancomycin, levofloxacin, and Flagyl
empirically with CTs of her chest and abdomen to rule out any
fluid collections or abscesses.

By postoperative day 17, the patient was to the point where
the service was considering extubation. We continued a slow
pressor support wean throughout the next several days, and on
postoperative day 20 the patient was extubated unsuccessfully
- requiring reintubation after a period of only 5 minutes. At
that time, thoracic surgery was consulted for percutaneous
tracheostomy and PEG. On the 13th, the patient had a
percutaneous tracheostomy placed at the bedside. She
tolerated the procedure well. PEG was delayed until a further
date. Unfortunately, the patient's percutaneous tracheostomy
was inadvertently removed on the following day, and she had
to be reintubated.

On the [**5-11**], the patient was brought to the operating
room where she underwent an open tracheostomy as well as a
PEG placement. During the week following the patient's
tracheostomy she was able to wean from the ventilator
successfully to tracheostomy collar during the day with
pressure support ventilation only required at night. At that
time, it was decided that the patient was stable and ready to
be transferred to a rehabilitation center with ventilator
capacity to continue her cardiac rehabilitation as well as
continued weaning from the tracheostomy.

At the time of this dictation, the patient's physical exam
was as follows. Temperature of 97, heart rate of 69 (sinus
rhythm), blood pressure of 92/38, respiratory rate of 17, O2
saturation of 96% on 50% tracheostomy collar. Lab data with a
white count of 12, hematocrit of 39, platelets of 447. Sodium
of 146, potassium of 3.6, chloride of 111, CO2 of 25, BUN of
21, creatinine of 0.4. PT of 17.7, PTT of 68, and INR of 1.4.
Neurologically, alert and responsive. Followed commands.
Moved all extremities. Cardiovascular with a regular rate and
rhythm. S1 and S2. No murmur. The sternum was stable.
Respiratory revealed coarse breath sounds diminished in the
lower lobes. The abdomen was soft and nontender. PEG site was
clean and dry with normal active bowel sounds. Incision sites
with staples. Extremities with bilateral AKA. Suture lines
with staples. Minimal erythema. Otherwise, clean and dry.
Groin incision line with mild erythema and serous drainage;
needs normal saline wet-to-dry dressing.

SUMMARY:  In summary, the patient's exam and plan by system:

1. NEUROLOGICALLY: The patient is intact, cooperative,
   following commands, requiring intermittent trazodone at
   night for sleep.

1. CARDIOVASCULAR: The patient is in a normal sinus rhythm
   with an adequate blood pressure. On amiodarone beta
   blockade and furosemide at stable doses.

1. 