Admission Date:  [**2145-2-27**]       Discharge Date:


Service:  Medicine

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Bright red blood per rectum.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77 year old
white female with a history of atrial fibrillation, St.
[**Male First Name (un) 1525**] aortic valve replacement, on Coumadin, who presented
with one to two weeks of progressive left lower quadrant
pain.  The pain was described as continuous, with
intermittent periods of worsening.  Four days prior to
admission, she noted a bloody bowel movement.  On the day
prior to admission, she had bright red blood per rectum times
one.  She reports one episode of emesis two days prior to
admission, which was non-bilious and non-bloody.  She also,
per her daughter, has been more confused than normal.  She
has been on Coumadin for her atrial fibrillation and aortic
valve replacement.  The dose was recently adjusted, although
the patient is unclear about the dose.  Reportedly, her
primary care physician has been following her INR via her
visiting nurse.

In the Emergency Room, the patient received one liter of
normal saline with 20 mEq of potassium.  Her hematocrit was
noted to be 36.5 with a white blood cell count of 11.6 and
her INR was 31.  She received four units of fresh frozen
plasma and a head CT scan was performed, which was read as
negative for an acute intracranial hemorrhage.  An abdominal
CT scan was performed which revealed diverticula and a
thickened proximal sigmoid and descending colon within
significant stranding and calcified vascular structures.  She
received ceftriaxone and Flagyl times one at the time of CT
scan.

On physical examination, the patient had moderate left lower
quadrant tenderness without rebound or guarding.  Her rectal
examination revealed maroon guaiac positive stool.  She was
afebrile and hemodynamically stable. She was admitted to the
medicine service for further evaluation and management of her
lower gastrointestinal bleed.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  History of diverticula in the
sigmoid colon on a colonoscopy in [**2144-7-2**].  2.  Chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  3.  St. [**Male First Name (un) 1525**] aortic valve
replacement in [**2136**].  4.  Hypertension.  5.  Noninsulin
dependent diabetes mellitus.  6.  Chronic atrial
fibrillation.  7.  Coronary artery disease.  8.  Congestive
heart failure, no echocardiogram available.  9.  Status post
appendectomy.  10.  Status post left oophorectomy.  11.
Status post partial thyroidectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o.q.d., Lipitor
10 mg p.o.q.d., glyburide 10 mg p.o.b.i.d., Glucophage 500 mg
p.o.b.i.d., Lopressor 37.5 mg p.o.b.i.d., Serevent two puffs
b.i.d., Flovent two puffs b.i.d., Combivent two puffs q.i.d.,
Captopril 25 mg p.o.t.i.d., digoxin 0.125 mg p.o.q.d., Lasix
40 mg p.o.b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin (rash).

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is independent and lives alone,
with a daughter in the area.  She has a 20 pack year history
of smoking, quit several years ago, and denies alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient denies chest pain, shortness
of breath, fevers or chills.  She complains of slight nausea,
left lower quadrant and bright red blood per rectum, as
above, no lightheadedness, headache, dysuria, recent emesis
or recent antibiotic use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, the patient
had a temperature of 98, heart rate 87 to 120, blood pressure
113/42, orthostatics negative, respiratory rate 22 and oxygen
saturation 99% in room air.  General:  Elderly white female
in no acute distress, alert and oriented times three.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation, extraocular movements
intact, oropharynx clear, dry mucous membranes, anicteric
sclerae.  Neck:  Supple, no jugular venous pressure.  Lungs:
Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:
Irregularly irregular, mechanical S2, I/VI systolic murmur at
left lower sternal border.  Abdomen:  Bowel sounds present,
moderate tenderness to palpation in the left lower quadrant
with no diffuse rebound or guarding, nondistended.  Rectal:
Maroon guaiac positive stool in Emergency Room, no masses.
Extremities:  No cyanosis, clubbing or edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count was 11.6 with 82%
neutrophils, 10% lymphocytes and 5.5% monocytes, hematocrit
36.5, platelet count 155,000, prothrombin time 69.1, partial
thromboplastin time 87.1, INR 31.6, sodium 126, potassium
4.6, chloride 91, bicarbonate 27, BUN 11 and creatinine 0.6.
Admission head CT negative was negative for intracranial or
extracranial hemorrhage.  Admission CT of abdomen and pelvis
revealed significant bowel wall thickening, stranding and
pericolic fluid at the level of the left distal descending
and proximal sigmoid colon, diverticula and vascular
calcifications present; differential diagnosis diverticulitis
versus ischemic bowel and/or hemorrhage into the bowel wall;
there were also large gallstones present without evidence of
cholecystitis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Gastrointestinal:  The patient was
admitted to the medical team and was followed by the
gastroenterology service and the surgical service given her
lower gastrointestinal bleeding in the setting of
supratherapeutic INR.  Given the constellation of an elevated
white blood cell count with a left shift, the appearance of
the CT scan, and her left lower quadrant pain, the most
likely diagnosis was diverticulitis with an intramural bleed.

The patient was kept on nothing by mouth and treated with
intravenous fluids.  She was started on intravenous
ciprofloxacin and Flagyl as well as intravenous vancomycin
for Enterococcus coverage, given her penicillin allergy.  She
remained hemodynamically stable, however, for her safety, she
was transferred for two days to the Intensive Care Unit for
more intensive monitoring.  She received two units of packed
red blood cells as well as two additional units of fresh
frozen plasma for an elevated INR.  She had already received
four units of fresh frozen plasma in the Emergency Room.  On
the day of admission, she received vitamin K 3 mg
subcutaneously times one.  The following day, while in the
Intensive Care Unit, she received 5 mg of intravenous vitamin
K times one.

The patient was transferred back to the regular medicine
floor on [**2145-2-28**].  Her diet was advanced to clears
and she was changed over to oral antibiotics of ciprofloxacin
500 mg twice a day and Flagyl 500 mg three times a day to
complete a total of five days of oral antibiotics for
presumptive diverticulitis.  Her diet was slowly advanced
and, by the time of discharge, she was tolerating a regular
diet.  She continued to have trace guaiac positive stools,
however, she had no gross bloody bowel movements.  Her left
lower quadrant pain resolved and she had no further emesis.
Her hematocrit remained stable and she required no additional
blood transfusions.  The patient needs to follow up with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 24982**] in the gastroenterology clinic in two to four weeks
after discharge, telephone number [**Telephone/Fax (1) **].

2.  Cardiovascular:  The patient has a history of atrial
fibrillation and St. [**Male First Name (un) 1525**] aortic valve replacement, for
which she was on Coumadin with a goal INR of 2.5 to 3.5.  On
admission, her INR was 31.6.  She received fresh frozen
plasma, blood transfusions and vitamin K, as above.  The
cardiology service was consulted in regard to whether she
should be continued on anticoagulation given the high risk of
stroke and with her mechanical valve.  Their recommendation
was to continue intravenous heparin with a goal partial
thromboplastin time of 50 to 60.  Heparin was therefore
restarted and her partial thromboplastin time was monitored
closely.  After her INR fell to 2, her Coumadin was restarted
without a loading dose at 2.5 mg orally at bedtime.  She will
be continued on heparin until her INR is therapeutic, which
is 2.5 to 3.5.

The patient also has a history of coronary artery disease,
congestive heart failure and hypertension.  On admission, her
cardiac medications were held in the setting of h