Admission Date:  [**2120-9-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2120-9-18**]


Service:  MEDICAL ICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 79 year-old male with
a history of coronary artery disease status post recent
coronary artery bypass graft in early [**Month (only) **] with multiple
complications including atrial fibrillation, aspiration
pneumonia, multiple pulmonary emboli, and poor graft flow
necessitating subsequent percutaneous coronary
revascularization.  He has a recent diagnosis of squamous
cell cancer of the lip with nodal metastases.  He was
transferred to the [**Hospital1 69**]
Medical Intensive Care Unit from [**Hospital3 3834**] for
further management of severe C-difficile colitis and left
lingular pneumonia.  The patient had been undergoing
rehabilitation and receiving his radiation treatment for his
head and neck cancer while residing at [**Hospital6 25759**]
Home.  He had been noted to be lethargic over the course of
his stay with poor appetite and occasional nausea and
vomiting.  He had recently been treated for a urinary tract
infection with antibiotics.

On [**9-5**], the patient noted increasing abdominal pain,
distention, nausea and vomiting, accompanied by fever to 103
degrees Fahrenheit.  He also became hypotensive and was
subsequently transferred to [**Hospital3 3834**].  He had an
extensive workup there, which ultimately revealed severe
C-difficile colitis.  He required fluid resuscitation as well
as pressors to support his blood pressure.  His creatinine
was elevated to 3.6 from a baseline of 1.0.  He also suffered
some mild myocardial damage with a small troponin leak of .7
with precordial T wave inversions.  Abdominal imaging
revealed the presence of ascites, which was sampled and
determined to be purulent with 4700 white blood cells and 98%
neutrophils, though culture turned out to be negative.  He
had no evidence of perforation on his CT scan.  The patient
was also determined to have a pneumonia involving the
lingula, with sputum proving positive for MRSA.  The patient
was covered broadly with antibiotics including Vancomycin and
Flagyl for his C-difficile colitis.

Over the course of his stay at [**Hospital3 3834**] he became
afebrile and eventually weaned off of pressors.  His
creatinine had improved to 1.2.  He was transferred to [**Hospital1 1444**] for further management of his
C-difficile colitis and pneumonia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease status post
coronary artery bypass graft in [**2120-7-13**] complicated by
poor graft flow necessitating percutaneous coronary
revascularization, postoperative atrial fibrillation and
pneumonia.  Pulmonary embolus in [**2120-7-13**].  Squamous cell
cancer of the lip with metastasis to the submandibular nodes.
He had been receiving radiation therapy.  Hypothyroidism.
Diabetes mellitus type 2.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm,
infrarenal, measuring 6.5 cm in diameter.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Protonix 40 mg intravenous q.d.,
Flagyl 500 mg intravenous t.i.d., Synthroid 25 micrograms
intravenous q.d., Vancomycin 250 mg po q.i.d., Vancomycin
enemas 250 mg per rectum q 6 hours, ceftazidime 2 grams
intravenous q 8 hours, Lopresor 5 mg intravenous t.i.d.,
Tobramycin 600 mg q 36 hours, total parenteral nutrition,
heparin drip 1000 units per hour.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  He has an adult
daughter.  [**Name (NI) **] is a former tobacco user.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  A chronically ill appearing elderly
white male with labored respirations.  Temperature was 19.8.
Heart rate 86.  Blood pressure 119/44.  SPO2 was 99% on 3
liters nasal cannula.  Skin was pale, warm and dry.  HEENT
sunken face, a large scab lesion was noted over his lower
lip.  His oropharynx appeared very dry.  Neck was supple.  He
had a right subclavian line recently placed without signs of
obvious infection.  Lungs diffuse bilateral inspiratory and
expiratory rhonchi, there was coarse crackling noted
bilaterally throughout the lung fields.  Heart regular rate
and rhythm.  2 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur at the apex.
Abdomen was markedly distended with absent bowel sounds.  He
was tender to palpation over the left lower and upper
quadrants without guarding or rebound.  His stool was OB
positive by report with rectal tube in place.  Extremities 2+
bilateral pitting edema.  His saphenectomy scar appeared to
be healing.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 17.3,
hematocrit 29.3, platelets 275, neutrophils 88, bands 3,
lymphocytes 2, PT 12.3, INR 1.0, PTT 43.4.  Sodium was 136,
potassium 4.3, chloride 108, bicarb 21, BUN 26, creatinine
0.9, glucose 157, calcium 6.3, phosphate 4.3, albumin was
1.5.  AST was 12, ALT 9, alkaline phosphatase 120, total
bilirubin was 0.2.  Venous blood gas showed pH of 7.31, PCO2
of 46.  Chest x-ray showed left lingular infiltrate.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for further management of his C-difficile
colitis and left sided pneumonia.  He was treated with
antibiotics, including oral Vancomycin and intravenous Flagyl
for C-difficile as well as intravenous Vancomycin for
treatment of his MRSA pneumonia.  He was also placed on Zosyn
for empiric converge in case of transmural injury of the
bowel leading to translocation of enteric pathogens.  He had
a repeat CT scan of the abdomen performed, which showed a
diffuse colitis, consistent with his history of C-difficile
colitis.  There was no evidence for bowel wall perforation.
His stool culture was repeatedly positive for C-difficile
infection.  The patient was followed by the Gastroenterology
and Surgical Consult Services.  It was determined that there
was no immediate indication for colectomy or surgical
exploration.  His ascites culture remained sterile.

The patient had a tenuous respiratory status over the course
of his hospitalization.  He had abundant secretions with weak
cough requiring intermittent suctioning and chest physical
therapy.  He was given nebulizer treatments as needed.  He
showed evidence for a worsening respiratory acidosis by
arterial blood gas measurement.  Extensive discussions with
the patient and the patient's family were held throughout his
hospitalization.  The patient opted for DNR/DNI status and
his wishes were honored accordingly so he continued to
receive intermittent suctioning and nebulizer treatments as
well as broad antibiotic coverage.  The patient's respiratory
status continued to decline.  He was noted to have
intermittent periods of apnea.  He declined further and went
into full respiratory arrest around midnight on [**2120-9-18**].  He was pronounced dead at 12:24 a.m. on [**9-18**].  His
family was updated on his condition throughout the night and
at the time of his death.  Autopsy was declined.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Lingular pneumonia.
2.  C-difficile colitis.
3.  Diabetes mellitus type 2.
4.  Coronary artery disease.
5.  Pulmonary embolus.
6.  Hypothyroidism.
7.  Squamous cell carcinoma of the lip with metastasis.
8.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.






                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 292**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 23338**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2120-9-18**]  19:15
T:  [**2120-9-25**]  13:38
JOB#:  [**Job Number 42904**]
