Admission Date:  [**2120-4-1**]     Discharge Date:  [**2120-4-8**]


Service:  CORONARY CARE UNIT

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient was an 89 year old
woman with a history of hypertension and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease admitted to an outside hospital on [**3-29**] after mechanical fall.  At the outside hospital, a CT scan
of the head was negative, the patient was asymptomatic but
ECG developed T wave inversions anteriorly and she was found
to have elevated creatinine kinase with a peak of 840.  Peak
CK MB was at 25 and troponin I peaked at 8.0.  The patient
was started on heparin at the outside hospital.

The patient also was noted at the outside hospital to have
supraventricular tachycardia despite beta blockers and
calcium channel blockers.  The patient was transferred to
[**Hospital1 69**] on [**4-1**] for a
cardiac catheterization.

She underwent cardiac catheterization on [**4-1**], which
showed 80% diagonal 1 stenosis which was too small for
intervention and otherwise mild disease.  The patient also
with left ventricular end diastolic pressure of 35 which was
elevated as well as severe diastolic ventricular dysfunction.
The patient was admitted to the [**Hospital Unit Name 196**] Service at that time for
diuresis.

The patient also underwent electrophysiology ablation on
[**4-3**] for her recurrent supraventricular tachycardia
despite medical management.

An echocardiogram on [**4-4**] showed severe hypokinesis
which was new compared to a normal echocardiogram per report
from an outside hospital dated [**2120-3-20**].

The patient also had two episodes of hypoxia while on the
floor which improved with respiratory suctioning and
diuresis.  On [**4-4**], the patient had a witnessed
respiratory arrest.  The patient was speaking to a nurses
aide and abruptly stopped breathing and turned blue.  The
patient was intubated at that time as well as started on
Dopamine drip for pressure support and transferred to the
Coronary Care Unit.

At the time of transfer to the Coronary Care Unit, the
patient was intubated, sedated and not able to answer
questions or follow commands.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Total hip replacement.
2.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Recurrent falls.
5.  Anemia.
6.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   On admission, intubated and sedated
elderly woman in no apparent distress with coarse breath
sounds throughout her lungs.  She had a II/VI systolic
murmur.  The remainder of the physical examination was
notable for no edema and trace pulses throughout.

LABORATORY:  Diagnostics on admission revealed chest x-ray
with appropriate placement of endotracheal tube.  No
pneumothorax.  Moderately enlarged heart as well as mild
congestive pattern.  No acute infiltrates evident.

White blood cell count of 8.5, hematocrit 32.  Chemistries
within normal limits except for a BUN and creatinine of
66/2.9, which was markedly elevated from 32/1.1 just hours
prior.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was an 89
year old woman with hypertension and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, transferred from an outside hospital after
having positive cardiac enzymes as well as ECG changes for
cardiac catheterization.  The patient had respiratory arrest
and was intubated on the floor on [**4-4**] and transferred
to the Coronary Care Unit.
[**Unit Number **].  RESPIRATORY ARREST/PULMONARY:  Unclear etiology but
likely due to a mucus plus.  Also in the differential is
pulmonary embolism as well as flash pulmonary edema.  Flash
pulmonary edema was unlikely given the chest x-ray that
showed improving congestive heart failure.  Arrhythmia was
unlikely given no events on Telemetry.  Pulmonary embolism
was possible and therefore the patient was maintained on
heparin drip empirically for pulmonary embolism.

Diagnostic tests for pulmonary embolism were not undertaken
due to the patient's renal function and poor functional
status.  The patient remained intubated on assist control and
then later on pressure support with improvement in her
arterial blood gas pattern.

Also on the differential for causing respiratory arrest was
aspiration, however, this was not likely given the chest
x-ray findings.  The patient was still covered with
Clindamycin and Levofloxacin for this however.  The patient
also continued on nebulizer treatments.

Per discussions with the patient's family and medical team,
the patient was extubated on [**4-7**] and was placed on
supplemental oxygen via shovel mask and nasal cannula.   The
patient was made COMFORT MEASURES ONLY even prior to
extubation and the plan with the family and Medical Team was
not to re-intubate due to the poor prognosis and futility of
re-intubation.  The patient was placed on a morphine drip
titrated to comfort.

The patient passed away from cardiopulmonary arrest on [**2120-4-8**].

2.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient with non-ST
elevation myocardial infarction at the outside hospital which
may have been rate related ischemia related to the patient's
supraventricular tachycardia.  The patient was maintained on
aspirin as well as Plavix and beta blocker.

3.  PUMP AND HEMODYNAMICS:  Echocardiogram on [**4-4**]
showed an ejection fraction of 25% with severe hypokinesis
and depressed right ventricular function as well as depressed
left ventricular function.  This was a drastic change from
the patient's echocardiogram at an outside hospital on
[**3-20**].  The obtained report from that echocardiogram
showed a normal ejection fraction.

The patient was started on Dopamine on [**4-4**] when she
became hypotensive during her respiratory arrest.  This was
weaned to off within one day of transfer to the Coronary Care
Unit.

4.  RHYTHM:  Supraventricular tachycardia which was noticed
at the outside hospital, and which was resistant to beta
blocker and calcium channel blocker.  The patient underwent
an electrophysiology ablation on [**4-3**], which she
tolerated well and which successfully brought the patient
back to sinus rhythm.  The patient was not noted to have any
arrhythmias or abnormal rhythms on Telemetry even during her
respiratory arrest.  Her deterioration in medical status was
not thought to be related to the electrophysiology procedure.

5.  RENAL FUNCTION:  The patient's creatinine initially was
in the low 1.0 range, but elevated acutely to the 3.0 range
surrounding her respiratory arrest.  This may have been due
to renal hypoperfusion or acute tubular necrosis due to
hypotension during the respiratory arrest.  The dye load from
the patient's cardiac catheterization may have contributed
somewhat to this as well.

6.  ELEVATED LIVER FUNCTION TESTS:  The patient's peak ALT of
1200 and AST of 1800 were likely related to hepatic
hypoperfusion due to patient's hypotension during the
respiratory arrest period.

DISPOSITION:   The patient expired on [**2120-4-8**], in the
Coronary Care Unit.  The patient's family were consulted
throughout her hospital stay and agreed with the plan to make
the patient COMFORT MEASURES ONLY beginning [**2120-4-7**].  The patient was "Do Not Resuscitate" and "Do Not
Intubate" and COMFORT MEASURES ONLY when she passed away.



                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 15176**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 15177**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 6906**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2120-4-13**]  14:25
T:  [**2120-4-14**]  21:03
JOB#:  [**Job Number 52466**]
