Admission Date:  [**2114-9-22**]     Discharge Date:  [**2114-9-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2064-2-26**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Hospital Ward Name 332**] Intensive Care Unit

CC:[**CC Contact Info 98817**]
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 50-year-old
gentleman with advanced amytrophic lateral sclerosis who is
ventilatory dependent and presented with respiratory
distress.

This history was obtained primarily from the patient's wife
and was confirmed with the patient who is able to speak
minimally around his tracheostomy.

Approximately five days prior to admission, the patient
started spiking temperatures to 102.  Three days prior to
admission, his wife empirically started him on a course of
levofloxacin for a presumed pneumonia when she noted
increased thick blood-tinged pulmonary secretions.  The
fevers did decrease on the antibiotics.

However, one day prior to admission, the patient and his wife
were watching television and afterwards the patient's wife
had difficulty transferring the patient to a wheelchair and
had to lower him to the floor.  He then started complaining
of shortness of breath and asked his wife to call 911.  She
attempted to suction him as well as to bag him without
improvement in his symptoms, so she called Emergency Medical
Service.  The patient also complained of some pleuritic chest
pain (typical of his pneumonia episodes according to his
wife).  He denies dysuria, but his wife reports dark urine
recently.

In the Emergency Department, he was found to have a blood
pressure of 195/98 with a heart rate of 150.  His initial
arterial blood gas revealed a pH of 7.05, a PCO2 of 51, and a
PO2 of 324; consistent with a mixed respiratory and metabolic
alkalosis.  With improved ventilation, his arterial blood gas
improved to a pH of 7.22, a PCO2 of 38, and a PO2 of 151.
The Emergency Department did a computed tomography angiogram
which was negative for pulmonary embolism but showed a
question of bibasilar consolidation versus atelectasis.  He
was given ceftriaxone 1 g intravenously and then transferred
to the Intensive Care Unit for further care.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Amytrophic lateral sclerosis diagnosed in [**2111**]; status
post tracheostomy and percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
tube in [**2113-5-17**].  He has been ventilator dependent since
[**2113-5-17**].
2.  Depression.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  History of prostatitis.
5.  Coronary artery disease; status post non-Q-wave
myocardial infarction in [**2113**] at [**Hospital6 1130**].
6.  History of pneumonia (Pseudomonas and Serratia).
7.  Nephrolithiasis.
8.  History of alcoholism.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Lactulose 30 mL by mouth twice per day.
 2.  Ativan as needed.
 3.  Clonazepam 1.5 mg by mouth twice per day.
 4.  Celebrex 200 mg by mouth twice per day.
 5.  Reglan 10 mg by mouth twice per day to three times per
day.
 6.  Celexa 80 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Allopurinol 100 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Rilutek 50 mg by mouth twice per day.
 9.  Detrol 2 mg by mouth twice per day
10.  Temazepam 45 mg by mouth q.h.s.
11.  Trazodone 200 mg by mouth q.h.s.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother had [**Name2 (NI) 499**] cancer.  Father had
coronary artery disease and a myocardial infarction in his
50s.  Brother has hypertension.  Grandfather had early
coronary artery disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and lives with his
wife who is his primary caretaker.  [**Name (NI) **] is a past alcoholic;
and according to his wife drinks socially now.  No history of
tobacco use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed vital signs with a temperature of 99.1
degrees Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 92, his blood pressure
was 164/79, his respiratory rate was 20, and his oxygen
saturation was 100% on 40% FIO2.  In general, he was alert
and answered questions appropriately.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose, and throat examination revealed tracheostomy in place.
Cardiovascular examination revealed heart sounds obscured by
loud breath sounds.  Lungs revealed loud rhonchorous upper
airway sounds bilaterally with decreased breath sounds in the
bases.  The abdomen was distended and nontender.  Bowel
sounds were present.  Gastrojejunostomy tube was in place.
Extremity examination revealed 3+ pitting edema throughout.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
revealed his white blood cell count was 21.  Chemistry-7 was
significant for a bicarbonate of 16, with an anion gap of 17,
and a glucose of 296.  Acetone was negative.  A urinalysis
showed 6 to 10 red blood cells, 6 to 10 white blood cells, a
few bacteria, and no ketones.  A lactate on his initial
arterial blood gas was 3.8.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray showed patchy
bibasilar density (left greater than right).

A computed tomography angiogram was a limited study due to
central intravenous access, but no pulmonary embolism was
seen.  Focal patchy consolidation or atelectasis with
associated bronchiectasis in the bilateral bases.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  RESPIRATORY ISSUES:  The patient is chronically
ventilator dependent due to advanced amytrophic lateral
sclerosis.  He presented with acute hypercapnic
decompensation as well as an increased A:A gradient which was
presumed secondary to pneumonia.

He was started on Zosyn and gentamicin due to his history of
Pseudomonas pneumonia.  The Zosyn was also coverage for
consideration of aspiration pneumonia.

Three days after admission, a sputum culture became positive
for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and the
patient was switched to vancomycin.  After being on
vancomycin for a couple of days, his fever curve trended
down.  The time of discharge, the patient was stable on his
ventilatory settings, and his secretions were much decreased.

2.  ACIDOSIS ISSUES:  On admission, the patient had a
profound acidosis due to respiratory and metabolic elements.
His respiratory acidosis resolved with changes in his
ventilatory settings which increased ventilation.  His
metabolic acidosis was presumed to be lactic acidosis also
resolved within a few hours of admission.  It was unclear
what caused this, but may have been due to an undocumented
hypotensive event prior to his presentation.

3.  ENDOCRINE ISSUES:  The patient had a glucose of
approximately 300 on presentation.  He had no history of
diabetes.  His glucose levels normalized within the first
couple of days of admission.  A hemoglobin A1c was checked
and was 5.  This was likely a stress event and does not need
further treatment at this time; however, this may suggest
that the patient has an increased risk of developing diabetes
in the future.

4.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  The patient did have positive
troponin levels with a peak of 0.36 in the setting of
negative creatine kinase levels during this admission.  He
does have a history of a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction in
the past.  This likely represented demand ischemia and was
treated with the initiation of aspirin and a beta blocker
(which the patient had previously been on at home in the
past).

5.  PSYCHIATRIC ISSUES:  The patient was on a large amount of
chronic benzodiazepines as well as antidepressants.  These
were continued while he was in house.

6.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION ISSUES:  The patient does
take food by mouth and is supplemented by tube feeds through
his gastrojejunostomy tube.

7.  ACCESS ISSUES:  A peripherally inserted central catheter
line was placed by Interventional Radiology for home
antibiotics.

8.  CODE STATUS:  The patient is already chronically
ventilation dependent.  However, he is do not resuscitate
status and this was confirmed with the patient and his wife
during this hospitalization.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable on
ventilator with improved pulmonary secretions.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharge status was to home.  The
patient's primary caretaker is his wife who is a registered
nurse.  They also have [**Hospital 5065**] home health care services.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS/FOLLOWUP:   The patient was to
complete a 2-week course of vancomycin through his