Admission Date:  [**2184-8-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2184-8-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2110-10-4**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU Green

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  The patient's chief complaint is shortness
of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73-year-old
gentleman with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
who presents with progressive shortness of breath times two
days which was associated with a cough productive of white
sputum. The patient denies any chest pain, fevers, chills,
nausea, or vomiting.  He denies orthopnea or increased lower
extremity edema.  There is a questioned episode of paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea approximately three days prior to
admission.

Of note, the patient's wife returned from Europe
approximately ten days ago with upper respiratory tract
symptoms.  She had encouraged her husband to seek and
evaluation for his shortness of breath earlier, but the
patient refused.  He was brought to the Emergency Department
at the [**Hospital1 69**] via Emergency
Medical Service on the morning of admission due to extreme
difficulty breathing overnight.

In the Emergency Department, his vital signs revealed a
temperature of 100.2, heart rate was 128, respiratory rate
was 40, and blood pressure was 146/86.  He was saturating 96%
on 6 liters.  A chest x-ray was done and showed no evidence
of pneumonia of congestive heart failure.  Electrocardiograms
were done showing no evidence of active ischemia.  The
patient was given 80 mg of Solu-Medrol, 500 mg of
levofloxacin, and continued on his albuterol nebulizers for a
presumed acute chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
exacerbation.  Initial blood gas at that time was 7.2/67/93.

The patient continued to be tachypneic and breathing using
accessory muscles.  Therefore, he was placed on a [**Hospital1 **]-level
positive airway pressure machine with improvement in comfort
level and respiratory rates.  He was then transferred to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past Medical History significant for)
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Chronic atrial fibrillation.
3.  Severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (with the
last pulmonary function tests in [**2184-6-3**] revealing an
FEV1 of 0.64 (which is 21% of predicted value), an FVC of
2.27 (which is 48% of predicted value), and an FEV1:FVC ratio
of 28 (which is 43% of predicted value).
4.  He has a history of an upper gastrointestinal bleed in
[**2176**].
5.  History of depression.
6.  History of alcohol abuse.
7.  His last echocardiogram in [**2182-3-7**] revealed a
normal ejection fraction of greater than 55%, right
ventricular hypertrophy, moderate-to-severe tricuspid
regurgitation, and moderate pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to PENICILLIN (which
causes him to have mouth swelling) and SONATA (gives him a
rash).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (The patient's home medications
were)
1.  Metoprolol 50 mg p.o. twice per day.
2.  Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. once per day.
3.  Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.
4.  Ativan 1 mg p.o. three times per day.
5.  Captopril 25 mg p.o. twice per day.
6.  Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. once per day.
7.  Albuterol meter-dosed inhaler and Atrovent meter-dosed
inhaler.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and lives with his
wife in [**Name (NI) **].  He is a retired psychologist and
contractor.  Per his wife, he continues to smoke; however,
the exact amount of cigarettes was unclear.  Additionally,
per his wife, he continues to drink alcohol; although the
amount of alcohol consumption is unknown as well.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On physical
examination, his vital signs revealed temperature was 100.2,
heart rate was 138, blood pressure was 148/64, respiratory
rate was 36, and oxygen saturation was 100% on [**Hospital1 **]-level
positive airway pressure.  In general, he was somewhat
uncomfortable-appearing and was breathing with accessory
muscles.  His head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
was notable for pupils which were equal, round, and reactive
to light.  His extraocular movements were intact.  His mucous
membranes were slightly dry.  Pulmonary examination was
notable for coarse breath sounds bilaterally.  Cardiovascular
examination was notable for tachycardia with an irregular
rhythm.  No murmurs were appreciated.  Abdominal examination
showed a nondistended abdomen with positive bowel sounds.
The abdomen was soft and nontender.  His extremities were
warm and well perfused and without edema, and there were no
rashes noted on his skin.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory
values in the Emergency Department revealed his white blood
cell count was 7.8, his hematocrit was 39.9, and platelets
were 222.  His Chemistry-7 revealed sodium was 130, potassium
was 5.1, chloride was 95, bicarbonate was 24, blood urea
nitrogen was 22, creatinine was 1.7, and blood glucose was
135.  Coagulations revealed prothrombin time was 20.8,
partial thromboplastin time was 35.1, and INR was 2.9.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed
hyperinflation with no focal infiltrates and no pleural
effusions.

Electrocardiogram revealed atrial fibrillation at a rate of
115 with left axis deviation.  There were Q waves in leads
III and aVF (which were new since [**2180**]).  There were no ST
segment changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE EXACERBATION
ISSUES:  The etiology of the shortness of breath and dyspnea
was thought to be secondary to an exacerbation due to an
upper respiratory tract infection.  He was initially managed
on noninvasive ventilation with continuous albumin and
Atrovent nebulizer treatments as well as steroids and
antibiotics.

On the evening of admission, the patient became increasingly
agitated, and hypertensive, and tachycardic; complaining of
hallucinations and confusion.  It was thought that these
symptoms were due to alcohol withdrawal.  He later became
increasingly hypercarbic with progressive mental status
changes and was intubated secondary to hypercarbic
respiratory failure in the setting of alcohol withdrawal and
mental status changes early in the morning on hospital day
two.  The patient was extubated on hospital day four after
exhibiting clinical improvement and stable arterial blood
gases.  Later that evening, the patient became progressively
more uncomfortable on face mask and increasingly more
somnolent.  Blood gas again revealed hypercarbia, and the
patient was reintubated for hypercarbic respiratory failure
secondary to increasing oral secretions in the setting of
progressive sedation.  The sedation and secretions improved
in the subsequent days, and the patient was extubated on
hospital day eight and remained stable.

Throughout his Medical Intensive Care Unit course, his
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare was continually
managed with levofloxacin (of which he completed 9 days of a
10-day course), steroids, and albuterol/Atrovent nebulizers.

2.  ATRIAL FIBRILLATION ISSUES:  The patient remained
persistently in atrial fibrillation throughout his Medical
Intensive Care Unit course.  His rate was initially managed
with intravenous Lopressor with good control.  However,
toward the end of his Medical Intensive Care Unit admission,
the rate control was no longer adequate with Lopressor and
diltiazem was added for rate control.

His Coumadin was initially held at the beginning of this
admission given his INR of 2.9 and the interactions of
Coumadin with levofloxacin.  However, the Coumadin was
restarted several days later, and the patient remained with a
therapeutic INR.

3.  HYPERTENSIVE ISSUES:  The patient's blood pressure was
initially managed with beta blockade alone; however, several
days into the admission, the patient remained persistently
hypertensive with systolic blood pressures ranging in the
160s to 170s and was subsequently started on captopril with
improvement of his systolic blood pressures.

4.  RENAL ISSUES:  The patient was admitted in acute renal
failure with a creatinine of 1.7 (with his baseline being 1.1
to 1.4).  This acute renal failure was thought to be due to
hypovolemia.  Consequently, his hydrochlor