Admission Date:  [**2146-4-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2146-4-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2080-3-9**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine, [**Location (un) **] Firm

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Fever and hyperglycemia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 66-year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease (status post
coronary artery bypass graft), type 2 diabetes, hypertension,
and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation who presented with fever,
weakness, and hyperglycemia.

The patient was at [**Hospital1 69**] from
[**Doctor Last Name 792**]visiting his daughter who is currently an
inpatient when he developed increased fatigue and weakness.

On checking his blood sugars, they were in the 400s, at which
time he presented to the Emergency Department with a fever of
103.  He denied any chest pain, shortness of breath, nausea,
vomiting, diarrhea, melena, or bright red blood per rectum.
He was initially hemodynamically stable in the Emergency
Department, but his blood pressure subsequently fell to the
70s and 80s.  He was volume resuscitated with 6 liters of
normal saline without affect.  A right internal jugular
triple lumen catheter was placed in the Emergency Department,
and Levophed and Neo-Synephrine were initiated for blood
pressure support.  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction in [**2133**] treated at that time with percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty, followed by a 4-vessel
coronary artery bypass graft in [**2142**].
2.  Diabetes; on insulin.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; treated with Coumadin.
5.  Congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of
30%).
6.  Beta-thalassemia trait.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Coumadin, lisinopril,
Pravachol, Pletal, Lasix, Zaroxolyn, 70/30 insulin,
Neurontin, and allopurinol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  He denies the use
of tobacco.  He drinks alcohol only occasionally.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Examination on
admission revealed temperature was 103, heart rate was 124,
blood pressure was 88/40, respiratory rate was 18, and oxygen
saturation was 96% on room air.  In general, he was
lethargic.  Oriented times three.  He appeared acutely ill.
Pertinent physical findings revealed that his oropharynx was
dry.  His neck was supple with jugular venous pulsation
approximately 10 cm.  His lungs sounded clear to auscultation
bilaterally (by report).  His heart examination was regular
with normal first heart sounds and second heart sounds.  A
2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal
border.  His abdominal examination was unremarkable.  His
extremities revealed trace pedal edema with chronic venous
stasis dermatitis bilaterally and erythema of the left lower
extremity around the medial malleolus which was also warmer
than surrounding skin.  Neurologic examination revealed that
he was alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves II
through XII were intact.  Otherwise, neurologic examination
was nonfocal.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on
admission revealed white blood cell count was 21.7 (with a
differential of 77 polys, 6 bands, 8 lymphocytes, and 7
monocytes), hematocrit was 31.7, and platelets were 210.
Chemistry-7 was remarkable for a blood urea nitrogen of 59
and creatinine of 1.6.  Blood sugar was 314 on admission.
Liver function tests were checked and were within normal
limits.  Initial set of cardiac enzymes done in the Emergency
Department revealed creatine kinase was 250, with a MB
fraction of 7, and a troponin of 2.4.  Coagulations revealed
prothrombin time was 19.7 and an INR of 2.6.  Urinalysis on
admission revealed a specific gravity of 1.017, with a small
amount of blood, and a glucose measurement of 1000.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram on admission
revealed a sinus rhythm with a right bundle-branch block at a
rate of 108, with ST depressions in V4 through V6.

A chest x-ray on admission showed cardiomegaly without
infiltrate or signs of congestive heart failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE ISSUES:  Presumably septic, the
patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit where
he was initially treated with vancomycin and levofloxacin
after having been started on oxacillin in the Emergency
Department for presumed cellulitis of the left lower
extremity.  His hemodynamic instability improved rather
quickly, and his antibiotics were changed to Unasyn; although
a source of his sepsis was still unknown.

With the patient afebrile without any signs of hemodynamic
instability or obvious source of infection, the Unasyn was
discontinued; allowing any present infection to present
itself.  After the discontinuation of the antibiotics, the
patient remained afebrile with no signs of obvious infection,
and antibiotics were not re-initiated.

Blood cultures throughout this admission were negative to
date at the time of this dictation.

2.  HYPOTENSION ISSUES:  Hypotension again presumed to be
sepsis.  The patient was treated initially with Levophed and
Neo-Synephrine.  Further volume resuscitation was held given
his high likelihood of the complication of congestive heart
failure.

Pressors were weaned over the subsequent 24 hours, and by the
second hospital day the patient was off all pressors and was
maintaining his blood pressure.

3.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  In the setting of the patient's
hypotension, he developed electrocardiogram changes and had
cardiac enzymes measured with a peak troponin of 49.3 and a
creatine kinase of 334.  Ultimately, the electrocardiogram
did not develop T waves, and the patient was diagnosed and
treated medically for a non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.

He was not treated with heparin because he was fully
anticoagulated with Coumadin; however, he was continued on
aspirin.  Once his blood pressure tolerated, his ACE
inhibitor was restarted.  He was also begun on Lopressor when
his blood pressure allowed.

With the aggressive volume resuscitation upon admission, the
patient did experience congestive heart failure which was
treated with his outpatient doses of Lasix and Zaroxolyn once
his blood pressure was able to tolerate this.

A full set of lipids was checked which revealed a total
cholesterol of 127, high-density lipoprotein was 56,
low-density lipoprotein was 56, and triglycerides were 77.
Therefore, his Pravachol dosing was not changed.

For his atrial fibrillation, his Coumadin was continued at
his outpatient dose at 7 mg daily with his INR maintained
appropriately.  With diuresis, the patient's heart failure
improved to his baseline

4.  RENAL INSUFFICIENCY ISSUES:  Upon admission, the
patient's creatinine was 1.6.  This was felt to be due to
prerenal azotemia.  With hydration upon the initial
resuscitation, his creatinine improved to 1.4.  Subsequently,
with the complication of his congestive heart failure, his
creatinine worsened again to 1.7.  However, with diuresis his
creatinine got as low as 1.2; which was likely his baseline.

5.  LEFT KNEE PAIN ISSUES:  On hospital day three, the
patient developed the acute onset of left knee pain with
focal tenderness on the lateral side of the knee with an
apparent effusion within the knee.

Concern was raised for a septic joint given the likelihood of
his recent bacteremia.  However, on further probing of the
patient's past medical history it was found that he has a
history of gout in that knee and had been on allopurinol
prior to admission.  The patient was treated empirically for
gout with colchicine, and Rheumatology was consulted
regarding the possibility of an arthrocentesis in the setting
of an elevated INR to rule out a septic joint.  Rheumatology
did tap the left knee and aspirated 0.5 cc of joint fluid
which was sent for culture; on which there was no growth at
the time of this dictation.

Following 24 hours of treatment with colchicine, the
patient's symptoms improved dramatically, and his walking
improved.  The patient was to be treated with colchicine 0.6
mg p.o. three times pe