Admission Date:  [**2120-5-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2120-6-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2062-5-15**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Vascular

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left groin swelling and pain with
spontaneous drainage.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was hospitalized on
[**2119-5-5**] to [**2119-5-8**] for bilateral fluid
collections on the right was 12 X 8 and on the left was 12 X
7; seroma versus hematoma was the thinking.  The patient
developed low back pain with radiation to the groin.

The patient went to an outside hospital and then was referred
to us.  He underwent a noncontrast computed tomography which
revealed a right groin fluid collection which was stable.
Infectious Disease felt at that time there was no clinical or
radiological evidence of abscess worsening.  Their
recommendations were that the patient complete an 8-week
course of vancomycin, levofloxacin, and Flagyl.  At the time
of admission, he had two more weeks of antibiotics.  The
hospital course was unremarkable except for a low hematocrit
of 26.1 for which he was transfused.  The patient's
hematocrit was 34.1.

The patient returns now with two weeks of left groin
swelling.  He did not seek medical attention.  He denied
constitutional symptoms.  The pain continued to progress
until [**2120-5-29**] when the patient sought medical
attention and was seen at [**Hospital3 **] Hospital and admitted.
The groin spontaneously drained.  A computed tomography was
done there.  Report of the findings were not available to us.
The patient was transferred to our institution for further
evaluation and treatment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm; status post endovascular
repair.
2.  History of bilateral groin fluid collections.
3.  History of hypertension.
4.  History of type 2 diabetes.
5.  History of hypercholesterolemia.
6.  History of chronic renal insufficiency (with a baseline
creatinine of 2).
7.  History of supraventricular tachycardia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Endovascular abdominal aortic
aneurysmal repair and open reduction/internal fixation of a
leg fracture.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially
assessed in the Emergency Department and the Vascular Service
was consulted.

Complete blood count revealed white blood cell count was 10.3
(with neutrophils of 76 and lymphocytes of 16), and his
hematocrit was 26.5.  The patient was afebrile with a
temperature maximum of 98.2.  The patient's electrolytes
showed a potassium of 6.2 with a creatinine of 4.6 (which was
elevated from his baseline of 2).

The patient was given Kayexalate and normal saline
intravenous solution with 10 intravenously regular insulin
and D-50 ampules times one was given.  The patient was also
begun on levofloxacin 500 mg and vancomycin 1 gram.
Intravenous fluids were changed to half normal saline with 2
ampules of bicarbonate per liter, and he received a second
dosing of 10 units of insulin with 1 ampule of D-50.

The patient was to the operating room and underwent an urgent
incision and drainage of the left groin.  Cultures were
obtained at that time.  The intraoperative findings were an
abscessed cavity.  The artery was not exposed.

The patient was then transferred to the Postanesthesia Care
Unit for controlled monitoring and care.  The patient
remained on ventilator support secondary to episodes of
hypotension which responded to fluid boluses.  His blood gas
was 7.30/31/191/16/-9.  The patient's postoperative
hematocrit was 28.  His white blood cell count was 7.  His
blood urea nitrogen was 94.  His creatinine was 3.6.  The
patient received 5 units of packed red blood cells
intraoperatively.

The patient was kept sedated overnight and remained in the
Postanesthesia Care Unit.  The Renal Service was consulted
for management of the patient's acute renal failure.
Recommendations were to continue to monitor his urine output,
maintain his systolic blood pressure at greater than 110,
maintain his hematocrit at greater than 30, hold ACE
inhibitors, and to avoid Lasix and diuretics and nonsteroidal
medications.  Recommendations were since his urine output was
good, there would be supportive care and dose medications for
a glomerular filtration rate of 10 to 50.

Podiatry was also consulted for severe soft tissue swelling
and Charcot changes of the midfoot with Barouk button
deformity.  Recommendations were to continue current therapy.
The patient remained intubated and was transferred to the
Intensive Care Unit for continued monitoring and care.

The patient initial wound cultures grew gram-positive cocci.
The foot wound culture grew gram-positive cocci,
gram-positive rods, and gram-negative rods.

The patient was seen by the Cardiology Service and a
transesophageal echocardiogram was done.  The valves were
without changes.  There were no vegetations noted.  His
ejection fraction was calculated at greater than 50%.  There
was no pericardial effusion and no atrial septal defect.

The Infectious Disease Service was consulted regarding
evaluation of infection, antibiotic, and length of therapy.
Their recommendations were to continue vancomycin and to dose
when levels were less than 15.  The levofloxacin should be
discontinued since the patient had been on it previously and
change him to Zosyn for gram-negative rod coverage.
Discontinue the clindamycin.  Repeat blood cultures times two
sets to rule out bacteremia.  Length of therapy to depend on
clinical course.

The patient was extubated on postoperative day one, and the
patient was transferred to the Vascular Intensive Care Unit
for continued monitoring and care.  The nitroglycerin was
weaned off.  He remained hemodynamically stable.  His
hematocrit was 31 with a total white blood cell count of 6.6.
His blood urea nitrogen was 67.  His creatinine was 3.1.
Liver function tests were unremarkable.  The patient's blood
cultures were no growth but not finalized at the time of this
dictation.  The initial wound culture grew
oxacillin-resistant coagulase-positive Staphylococcus.
Intraoperative tissue cultures were the same.  A repeat wound
culture grew the same organisms.

The patient remained in the Vascular Intensive Care Unit.
The PA catheter was changed to a central venous line.
Ambulation with a healing sandal was instituted.  His diet
was advanced as tolerated.  His fluids were hep-locked.  His
wound dressing changes were continued three times per day.

The patient underwent pulmonary vascular resistance studies
which demonstrated noncompressible vessels with mild left
tibial arterial disease.  The dopplerable signals at
popliteal, posterior tibialis, and dorsalis pedis were all
triphasic.  The pulse volume metatarsal was 26 on the right
and 14 on the left.  Ankle-brachial index could not be
calculated secondary to elevated noncompressible vessels.

The patient's renal status continued to show improvement over
the next 72 hours with management by the Renal Service.  The
patient underwent excisional debridement at the bedside on
[**5-31**] by the Podiatry Service.  Their recommendations were
to continue current therapy, and the patient was to follow up
with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] or Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] one week status post discharge.

The patient was transferred to the Medicine Service on [**2120-6-1**] under the care of Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].  The remaining hospital
course will be dictated by the Medicine Service.  The patient
should follow up with Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] one week status post
discharge.





                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7252**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1479**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2120-6-5**]  08:55
T:  [**2120-6-5**]  09:02
JOB#:  [**Job Number 22074**]
