Admission Date:  [**2107-10-17**]       Discharge Date:  [**2107-10-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2071-5-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 36-year-old
gentleman who hit his head at work and developed an occipital
hematoma.  Initially he was awake and following commands.
When he arrived in the Emergency Department, he was not
following commands.  He was intubated.

Head CT showed a large right holohemispheric acute subdural
hematoma and a right frontal contusion.  The patient was
brought emergently to the operating room for evacuation of
the subdural.  There were no intraoperative complications
during surgery.

The patient postoperatively was monitored in the Trauma/SICU.
He was in a hard collar until his cervical spine was cleared,
which was eventually cleared.

His vital signs remained stable.  He was on some Propofol for
sedation.  His pupils were equal and reactive.  He was
grimacing symmetrically, opening his left eye.  His right eye
was swollen shut.  He attempted to localize his bilateral
upper extremities and withdrew his lower extremities, right
greater than left.

He had a postoperative head CT which showed good evacuation
of the subdural hematoma with just some postoperative air.
His vital signs remained stable.  He continued to improve
neurologically and was extubated on postoperative day #2.

He remained in the Intensive Care Unit, with an improving
neurologic status.  On [**2107-10-20**], when he was
transferred to the regular floor.

He was somewhat sleepy at times and then other times agitated
and somewhat impulsive.  He was on a sitter for a short time
which was eventually weaned off.  The patient did spike a
temperature to 101.3?????? on [**2107-10-23**], and fully cultured
with no obvious source for infection.  His vital signs
remained stable.  He was awake, alert and oriented times
three, with no drift.  He was moving all extremities with
good strength.  His collar is off, and his cervical spine has
been cleared.  He has no other injuries.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Hydromorphone 2-4 mg p.o. q.4 hours
p.r.n. headache, Sodium Chloride 1 g p.o. b.i.d., Folic Acid
1 mg p.o. q.d., Metoprolol 12.5 p.o. b.i.d. for a systolic
blood pressure greater than 150, ................... 20 mg
p.o. b.i.d., Thiamin 100 mg p.o. q.d., Heparin 5000 U subcue
q.12 hours.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:   He was seen by Physical Therapy and
Occupational Therapy and found to require acute head injury
rehabilitation.

FOLLOW-UP:  He will follow-up with Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] in one month
with a repeat head CT, and his staples should be removed on
postoperative day #10.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 125**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 342**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 343**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 344**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2107-10-25**]  10:40
T:  [**2107-10-25**]  10:40
JOB#:  [**Job Number 50162**]

