Admission Date:  [**2132-10-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2132-11-7**]


Service:  ACOVE Medicine

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 80-year-old
gentleman with a past medical history significant for
coronary artery disease (status post coronary artery bypass
graft), diverticulosis, and prostate cancer (status post
radiation therapy) who presented with [**Hospital3 672**]
Hospital complaining of some bright red blood per rectum.

On the evening prior to admission, the patient was noted to
have approximately 600 cc of bright red blood in his diaper.
He was then transferred to the Emergency Department for
further evaluation.

The patient denied any abdominal pain, dizziness, chest pain,
shortness of breath, or other complaints.  He denied any
previous occurrence of rectal bleeding.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient complained of a mild headache
which he has had for several weeks.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease; status post coronary artery
bypass graft.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Gout.
4.  Prostate cancer.
5.  Status post brachy therapy.
6.  Diverticulosis.
7.  Diverticulitis.
8.  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
9.  Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placement.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Levaquin 250 mg by mouth once per day.
2.  Prednisone 60 mg by mouth once per day.
3.  Captopril 6.25 mg by mouth three times per day.
4.  Protonix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
5.  Lopressor 25 mg by mouth twice per day.
6.  Aspirin.
7.  Colace.
8.  Multivitamin one tablet by mouth once per day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a resident at [**Hospital6 18042**].  He has a legal guardian who is a neighbor.
[**Name (NI) **] denies any current use of alcohol or tobacco.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed vital signs which included a temperature of 97.1
degrees Fahrenheit, his heart rate was 86, his blood pressure
was 140/72, his respiratory rate was 18, and his oxygen
saturation was 99% on 2 liters.  In general, the patient was
a cachectic-appearing gentleman in no acute distress.  Head,
eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed
normocephalic and atraumatic.  Extraocular movements were
intact.  The sclerae were anicteric.  The neck was supple.
No jugular venous distention.  The lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular examination
revealed tachycardia.  A regular rhythm.  Normal first heart
sounds and second heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs, or
gallops.  The abdominal examination revealed positive bowel
sounds.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.
Extremity examination revealed the extremities were warm and
dry.  No edema.  There was a pressure sore on the right heel.
Neurologic examination revealed the patient was alert and
oriented times three.  No focal deficits.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

 1.  GASTROINTESTINAL BLEED ISSUES:  The patient was admitted
with complaints of rectal bleeding with a blood loss of
approximately 600 cc.

In the Emergency Department, he had another episode of rectal
bleeding of approximately 100 cc.  The patient received a
total of 5 units of packed red blood cells to maintain his
hematocrit levels of greater than 30.

He was evaluated by Gastroenterology.  He had an upper
endoscopy which was significant only for mild gastritis.  He
then had a colonoscopy which showed a fungating rectal mass
thought to be the etiology of his bleeding.  His hematocrit
remained stable, and he did not have any further active
bleeding.

The Surgical Service also evaluated the patient and felt that
the bleeding component of his rectal mass was consistent with
radiation prostatitis.  They recommended followup with
Gastroenterology for Argon laser treatment should the
bleeding recur.

 2.  RECTAL MASS ISSUES:  The patient was found to have a
fungating rectal mass on colonoscopy.  There was concern for
recurrence of his prostate cancer (although his
prostate-specific antigen was normal) versus a rectal
carcinoma primary.  Pathology of the mass was sent; however,
it was not diagnostic showing cellular atypia consistent with
radiation damage.  The patient had a transrectal ultrasound
which showed evidence of recurrent prostate cancer with
invasion into the right anterior wall of the rectum.  The
patient was referred to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in Oncology for further
evaluation and was given an appointment for the week
following discharge.

 3.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE ISSUES:  Congestive heart
failure with an ejection fraction of 20%.  The patient's
cardiac medications were initially held upon admission given
his gastrointestinal bleeding and concern for hypotension.
The patient had an episode of flash pulmonary edema which did
respond well to Lasix, nitroglycerin, and hydralazine.  The
patient was then restarted on his beta blocker and ACE
inhibitor in addition to intravenous Lasix.  His symptoms
improved with this regimen.  He was then stabilized on the
beta blocker and ACE inhibitor and was taken off the Lasix.

The plan was to monitor him as an outpatient, and should he
begin to develop symptoms of fluid overload, he should be
restarted on his daily dose of Lasix.

 4.  CHRONIC RENAL INSUFFICIENCY ISSUES:  The patient with
baseline renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine
ranging from 1.4 to 1.5.  His creatinine on admission was
1.4.  With diuresis his creatinine did initially trend up and
then normalized to his bowel sound value without any further
intervention.

 5.  GASTROINTESTINAL ISSUES:  The patient with a history of
multiple failed swallowing studies.  He had a percutaneous
endoscopic gastrostomy tube placed and had been nothing by
mouth for approximately four months.

The patient was re-evaluated with a Speech and Swallow study
and did pass the video swallow study.  At this point, he was
restarted on a diet of pureed foods and thick liquids.  He
was also continued on his tube feeds; although the rate was
lowered to 30 cc per hour to maintain adequate nutrition.

 6.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION ISSUES:  The patient was
maintained on tube feeds with by mouth supplementation as
above.  He was encouraged to consume Boost shakes.  His
electrolytes were followed and repleted as needed throughout
his hospitalization.

 7.  URINARY TRACT INFECTION ISSUES:  The patient's urine
grew out Klebsiella of two morphologies which were sensitive
to multiple cephalosporins.  The patient had initially been
on Levaquin and Flagyl and was then transitioned over to a by
mouth cephalosporin when the sensitivities came back.  His
leukocytosis resolved with antibiotic therapy.  On
antibiotics for a total of seven days of treatment for this
complicated urinary tract infection.

 8.  RIGHT HEEL ULCER ISSUES:  The patient with a chronic
pressure sore on his right heel.  The patient was evaluated
by the Plastic Service who recommended bacitracin ointment to
keep the wound moist and keeping the wound open.  He also was
prescribed a pressure boot which was to be kept on his right
foot at all times to minimize the risk of pressure to the
ulcer.  They did not recommend any further intervention at
this time.

 9.  PROPHYLAXIS ISSUES:  The patient was maintained on a
proton pump inhibitor for gastrointestinal prophylaxis and
pneumatic compression boots for deep venous thrombosis
prophylaxis throughout his hospitalization.

10.  CODE STATUS ISSUES:  The patient was full code.  His
legal guardian did consent him for all procedures.

11.  HEADACHE ISSUES:  The patient was admitted with a
history of headaches.  He had been evaluated as an outpatient
by Rheumatology for a question of temporal arteritis.  His
temporal artery biopsy did come back negative.  He had been
empirically started on prednisone, but given the negative
biopsy, he was then tapered off the prednisone.  His
prednisone taper was to continue following discharge.  His
headache were well controlled with Tylenol during his
hospitalization and were thought to be tension related.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharge status was to nursing home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES