Admission Date:  [**2110-2-17**]       Discharge Date:  [**2110-2-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2050-11-22**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Congestive heart failure and acute non ST
elevation myocardial infarction status post catheterization.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 59 year-old
female with a past medical history of diabetes, peripheral
vascular disease, chronic renal insufficiency, [**2104**] stent to
the left anterior descending coronary artery, in 8/99 rota of
the obtuse marginal, and [**9-/2106**] percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty of the LPDA, percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty of the obtuse marginal one, status post
unsuccessful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty
of the proximal obtuse marginal one, [**10-24**] cipher to the
circumflex who awoke from sleep today with 8 to 10 anginal
equivalent pain, nonradiating and positive shortness of
breath, positive diaphoresis with the pain that was
nonpleuritic.  The pain, which normally resolve with one
nitroglycerin did not resolve with three nitroglycerin.  The
patient called EMS and was brought to an outside hospital.
There was found to be in failure with positive enzymes and
electrocardiogram changes.  The patient was transferred here
for cardiac catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Gout.
2.  Osteoporosis.
3.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
4.  Peripheral vascular disease.
5.  Diabetes mellitus.
6.  Status post appendectomy.
7.  Carpal tunnel surgery.
8.  Status post femoral popliteal bypass in [**2100**].
9.  Hematemesis.
10.  Anemia.
11.  Hypothyroidism.
12.  Peripheral neuropathy.

ALLERGIES:  Morphine, sodium penathol and Tylenol #3.

MEDICATIONS ON ARRIVAL:
1.  Lopresor 100.
2.  Lasix 80.
3.  Lantus 10 in the evening.
4.  Prilosec 20.
5.  Prinivil 10.
6.  Plavix 75.
7.  Humalog 100.
8.  Neurontin 300.
9.  Aspirin 325.
10.  Keflex 500.
11.  Colchicine .6.
12.  Imdur 60.
13.  Pravachol 40.
14.  Diovan 160.
15.  Allopurinol 100.
16.  Ecotrin 325.
17.  Norvasc 20.
18.  Lopressor 50.

OUTSIDE HOSPITAL LABORATORIES:  White blood cell count 7.7,
hematocrit 29.7, platelets 310, sodium 138, INR 1.0, BUN 86,
creatinine 2.5, potassium 4.5, glucose 237.  Her CK was 116
with an MB fraction of 5.3 and her troponin was 4.1.  Chest
x-ray was consistent with failure.

PERTINENT PREVIOUS STUDIES:  In [**2104**] stent to the left
anterior descending coronary artery, [**2104**] rota of the obtuse
marginal and [**9-/2106**] percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty of the LPDA and a percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty of the obtuse marginal one.  Status post
unsuccessful percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty
of the proximal obtuse marginal one and [**10-24**] cipher to
circumflex.

CURRENT STUDIES IN HOUSE:  Catheterization report, which
showed three vessel disease, patent left circumflex stent,
cardiac output of 6.60, cardiac index of 3.28, capillary
wedge pressure of 34, right atrial pressure of 7 and
pulmonary artery pressure 46.  Her left main coronary artery
showed no obstruction.  Her left anterior descending coronary
artery showed mild disease, left circumflex showed subtotal
obtuse marginal severely diseased before stenting and with
current collateralization.  Her right coronary artery showed
small nondominant 50% occlusion in the middle vessel and the
recommendations status post catheterization were medical
management.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs when seeing the patient
were blood pressure 140/60.  Heart rate 74.  Respiratory rate
20.  Satting 99% on 3 liters.  She was an elderly female
lying in bed in no acute distress.  Face mask on.  Able to
speak in full sentences.  No JVD.  Regular rate and rhythm.
No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Bilateral crackles [**1-23**] of the
way up.  1+ bilateral lower extremity edema.  Alert and
oriented times three.  Groin site with no hematoma or oozing.


HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially evaluated in the
holding room after catheterization.  At this point she was
satting 97 to 99% on 3 liters and looked relatively
comfortable.  Upon arrival to the floor the patient had a
moment of desaturation.  She went down to the high 80s, which
was resolved after positioning the patient in a better
position.  The patient also suffered from nausea during the
first evening on the floor, which resolved with the
application of Zofran and Ativan.  The next day after arrival
to the floor it was noted that the patient's urine output had
decreased and the patient's creatinine had bumped from her
baseline around 2 to over 3.  The Renal Service was consulted
and they felt that the patient would require emergent
hemodialysis to combat the acute renal failure.  The patient
was transferred to the CCU where she underwent hemodialysis
on two of the three days that she stayed in the unit.  The
first day 4.7 liters of fluid were removed from the patient
and on the third day an additional 2 liters were removed from
the patient.  During her time in the unit the patient had one
bout of chest pain 4 out of 10, which lasted approximately 20
minutes, which resolved with sublingual nitroglycerin.  After
significant clinical improvement the patient was transferred
to the floor for further care.

After return to the floor the patient's creatinine came back
down from a high of 4.9 down to approximately 3.  At this
point the patient had no other complaints of chest pain,
shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, fevers or chills and
began to put out better urine output.  Over the next few days
her creatinine slowly increased from 3 to 3.3 to 3.5 and
finally on the day of discharge 3.4.  Renal continued to
follow the patient and felt that dialysis was not needed at
this point, however, they would continue to monitor her urine
output as well as creatinine.  Their thought was that her
acute on chronic renal failure was probably secondary to
contrast nephropathy, which resulted from the contrast dye
given during catheterization.

1.  Non ST elevation myocardial infarction:  The patient
arrived without chest pain, but had a history of chest pain,
electrocardiogram changes and positive enzymes.  She also had
multiple risk factors as well.  The patient underwent cardiac
catheterization (see report above), but no intervention
occurred during the catheterization.  An echocardiogram while
in house showed an ejection fraction of 35 to 40%, which was
worse from an echocardiogram done two years ago, which showed
an ejection fraction of 40 to 45%.  On [**2-23**] three days before
discharge her CK and troponin had a significant increase
after trending down for the rest of her hospital stay.  The
following two days the CK and troponin both went back down
with no further chest pain, shortness of breath, nausea or
vomiting.

2.  Congestive heart failure:  The patient's initial chest
x-ray was consistent with congestive heart failure.  Prior to
the CCU admission the patient was given Lasix and was
responsive, however, the day that she was transferred to the
CCU her urine output dropped off despite the application of
120 mg of Lasix.  Now that the patient is no longer being
dialyzed and is back in the CCU her urine output is once
again responsive to Lasix.  Her clinical examination has
drastically improved from admission with only very small
crackles at the bases remaining.  She is satting well on room
air currently.

3.  Hypoxia:  The patient was on 3 liters of nasal cannula.
This most likely was secondary to congestive heart failure
and pulmonary edema.  After the significant diuresis by
dialysis as well as the good urine output over the last few
days of her hospital stay the patient continues to sat well
on room air with no other respiratory issues.

4.  Chronic renal insufficiency:  The patient's creatinine is
slightly up from baseline, however, she continues to have
good urine output and his Lasix responding.  Her creatinine
appears to be stable and slightly decreasing now at a level
near 3.5.  It will be sometime to determine whether she will
return back to her baseline or whether she will develop a new
baseline slightly higher then prior.

5.  Diabetes mellitus:  The pati