Admission Date:  [**2136-10-19**]     Discharge Date:  [**2136-11-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2072-2-1**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 64-year-old woman
with a past medical history significant for hypertension,
diabetes, status post a right-sided CVA, who presents with a
fall with a history of multiple falls.  Denies loss of
consciousness, head trauma, shortness of breath, chest pain,
or lightheadedness.  She states that she landed on her
bottom.  Denies any new weakness or seizure activity.  Past
medical history also includes ETOH use in the past, DT
withdrawal, urinary incontinence, decreased platelets,
hepatitis C and residual right-sided weakness for her CVA.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Atenolol 50 mg b.i.d., clonidine
.1 b.i.d., folic acid 1 po q.d., NPH insulin 24 subcutaneous
q.a.m., ibuprofen 400 mg t.i.d., Ditropan 5 mg b.i.d.,
Paroxetine 10 mg once a day, Dilantin 200 mg q.d., trazodone
25-50 q.a.m.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature was 97.8.  Blood pressure
199/104 down to 162/99. Heart rate was in the 60s.
Respiratory rate 16-18, saturations 98-99% on room air.  No
pain.  On physical examination, the patient was lying in bed
sleepy in no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat:  Icteric sclera.  Extraocular movements grossly
intact.  Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.
Cardiovascular:  Sinus rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or gallops.
Respiratory:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen
soft, active bowel sounds, nontender, nondistended, no
organomegaly.  Extremities:  No edema.  Mental status:
Occasionally follows commands.  Poor historian.  Answers
direct questions.  Tongue deviates to the right.  Strength:
Right upper and lower extremity are [**3-23**].  Left upper and
lower extremity is [**4-22**].

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 4.6,
hematocrit 40.7, platelets 120,000.  Sodium 139, potassium
5.1, chloride 100, CO2 26, BUN 11, creatinine .7, glucose
172.  PT was 14.1, PTT 25.1, INR 1.4.  Electrocardiogram was
unchanged from previous.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was admitted to the Medical
Service.  On [**10-20**], patient went into respiratory
failure and had to be intubated.  Patient was successfully
extubated the following day with stable vital signs.  Patient
had a head CT on admission that showed a large acute on
chronic subdural hematoma on the right side 2.4 cm in depth
from the frontal to the occipital lobe, midline shift to the
left pressing the third ventricle and compression of the
temporal horns on the left and basal cisterns.  Patient was
admitted to the Trauma Intensive Care Unit.  On [**10-20**],
patient was awake, alert, conversant with no drift and a left
residual drift on the right from frontal CVA.  She had
decreased strength and sensation on the right leg as well.
Moves bilateral lower extremities spontaneously.  Patient had
bed side drainage of her subdural hematoma without
complications.  CT scan after initial burr whole drainage at
the bed side was done which showed acute bleeding.  Patient
was taken to the Operating Room for evacuation of subdural
hematoma on the right side without intraoperative
complication.  Postoperative vital signs are stable.  Patient
was awake, responding, following commands.  She had some
right-sided weakness, which was residual from an old stroke.
Pupils were 3 to 2 and brisk.  Patient had a head CT.

Patient was stable overnight initially postoperatively, and
the following day, postoperative day, one had seizure in the
Recovery Room.  Patient was then transferred to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for close monitoring.  Patient had a
repeat head CT the morning after surgery which was negative
for any new bleeding, but did have a seizure on arrival to
the Medical Intensive Care Unit which required intubation for
decreasing mental status, status post three seizures.

On [**10-23**], patient's neurological exam:  Patient was
inattentive, but moving all four extremities spontaneously
and withdrawing to pain.  No further seizure activity.  Vital
signs were stable.  [**10-23**], patient again had a seizure.
She was given 2 mg of intravenous Ativan and no further
seizures were noted.  Dilantin level was 32 at the time.  Her
Dilantin was held.  On [**2135-12-25**], patient went into
rapid atrial fibrillation with a heart rate of 160.  Systolic
blood pressure decreased from the 140s to 90/100.  Patient
was given a total of 10 mg of intravenous Lopressor without
result.  Also 250 mg of esmolol was pushed. Patient was
cardioverted with a 100 joules and converted to sinus rhythm
but then converted back to atrial fibrillation, cardioverted
again with 200 joules and converted to sinus rhythm and
remains there.  She was started on esmolol drip at 100
mg/kg/minute and remained in sinus rhythm with frequent
premature atrial contractions.  Patient's blood sugars were
very high and patient was placed on an insulin drip.  Blood
glucose was 331.

On [**10-26**], temperature was 100.3, 98/50 was her blood
pressure.  She opened to eyes to voice.  Her pupils were 4
down to 3 mm and brisk.  She attended to the examiner,
withdrew bilateral legs while grimaces to sternal rub.  Does
not follow commands.  Localizes briskly in the left side,
greater than the right side.  Repeat head CT showed stable
residual subdural fluid.  No change in mass effect.  Dilantin
level at the time was 24.9.  Patient continued on Zosyn for
gram negative rods and pneumonia.  Patient was extubated on
[**2136-10-27**] after a trial of CPAP.  Patient tolerated
CPAP well, but as soon as she was extubated, she began having
stridor.  She was re-intubated within 30 minutes of
extubation.

Post extubation and reintubation, she was awake, attentive,
shaking her head, nodding words, mouthing words.  Extraocular
movements were full.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive
to light.  She continued to have the right drift, but had
anti-gravity strength on the left. Patient was scheduled for
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and trache. At [**11-2**], patient was awake, attentive, following commands with a
right drift, withdrawal of bilateral lower extremities and
moving left side to command.  Her Dilantin level was 22.6 and
she was scheduled for a trache and percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy placement.  Patient was extubated for a third
extubation trial on [**2136-11-2**] which she did not
tolerate and required re-intubation.

On [**2136-11-5**], patient had percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy and trache placed without intraoperative
complication.  Postoperative vital signs are stable.  Patient
had a temperature maximum of 101.  She was fully cultures.
She was awake, opening eyes spontaneously, moving
extremities, withdrawing times four with continued residual
right-sided weakness from old CVA.  Currently, patient is
positive for Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus and
Serratia in her sputum.  Blood cultures are pending.  Urine
cultures are pending and she remains on vancomycin for ten
days for Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
Patient currently on insulin drip, but will be converted to
subcutaneous insulin prior to discharge.  Her vital signs had
remained stable and she continues on oxacillin.

MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE:
1.  Colace liquid 100 mg per percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy b.i.d.
2. Vitamin B 1 tablet per percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
q.d.
3.  Folic acid 1 mg per percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
q.d.
4.  Zantac 150 mg per percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
b.i.d.
5.  Dilantin 100 mg suspension per percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy q. 8 hours.
6.  Clonidine .1 mg per percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
b.i.d.
7.  Atenolol 50 mg per percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy
b.i.d.
8.  Vancomycin 1 gram intravenous q. 12 hours.
9.  Tube feeding promote with fiber 60 cc an hour.
10. Patient's insulin will be re-quoted in an addendum just
prior to discharge.

PATIENT'S CONDITION:  Stable at the time of discharge.

DISCHARGE FOLLOW-UP:  Patient will follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1132**]
with repeat head CT in three to four weeks time.


                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 