Admission Date:  [**2105-3-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2104-4-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2044-2-27**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICINE

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:
Pneumonia.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Small bowel obstruction status post exploratory
laparotomy, lysis of adhesions and small bowel resection for
mesenteric ischemia.
2.  Aspiration pneumonia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 59 year-old
male with a history of a small bowel obstruction in [**Month (only) 205**] of
the year [**2104**] who presented on the day of admission with
nausea and vomiting one day.  He had two bowel movements the
day prior.  He was not passing any flatus.  He had no
complaints of any abdominal pain and complaining of some mild
shortness of breath.  There was no history of any aspiration.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for sarcoid, gout, history
of compression fractures, history of syncope, chronic renal
insufficiency, orthostatic hypertension, osteoporosis, status
post cholecystectomy in [**2104-8-16**], history of MRSA, line
sepsis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Advil, Allopurinol, Celexa,
potassium, Oxycontin, Prilosec, Temazepam, testosterone,
Vicodin.

ALLERGIES:  Colchicine.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On examination he had an NG tube
placed in the Emergency Room with relief of nausea.  He was
in no apparent distress.  Sclera were anicteric.  His mucous
membranes were dry.  He had a left cervical lymph node that
was palpable.  His chest was decreased throughout.  His heart
was regular in rhythm.  His abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended.  He had a large midline scar.  His extremities
were without edema.  His rectal exam was guaiac negative
without any palpable masses.  He was overall moderately
cachectic.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White count 19,000 with 90%
neutrophils and a hematocrit of 37, platelet count 408.  Chem
7 137/4.3, 101/21, 38/1.2 and 106.  ALT 25, AST 30, alkaline


phosphatase 30, amylase 54, total bilirubin 0l.4, albumin
3.7, lipase 28.  His chest x-ray demonstrated left lower lobe
infiltrate.  His KUB demonstrated air fluid levels.

He was admitted to the medical service for a left lower
infiltrate with a question of small bowel obstruction or
ileus.  He had an NG tube that was placed, a low wall
resection and was placed on IV fluids and was given morphine
for his complaints of back pain.

HOSPITAL COUSRE:  He continued to have moderate NG tube
output that were decreasing.  He was passing gas and having a
bowel movement on hospital day one, however, he had an
increasing white count of 24,000.  CT scan was ordered,
however, he developed acute respiratory distress and was
started on heparin for presumptive pulmonary embolism.  At
that time of the evening he did not get a CT scan.  On
hospital day two he continued to complain of some shortness
of breath.  He was on subQ heparin.  He got a CAT scan that
day that demonstrated dilated loops of small bowel with a
possible transition point.  Later in the day he actually was
found minimally responsive and hypoxic with an acidotic with
a gas of 7.0.  He was immediately intubated on the floor and
brought to the medical Intensive Care Unit.  On that evening
and following into the day he required increasing doses of
pressors and IV fluid.  His urine output decreased.  His NG
tube outputs were increased as well and with this
deterioration and along with his medical condition along with
his CAT scan findings he was taken to the Operating Room
where a low midline incisions and multiple dilated loops of
small bowel were found along with an area of a closed group
obstruction of a loop of about 15 cm of bowel that was
ischemic.  This was resected in the Operating Room and the
patient was reanastomosed primarily.  He tolerated the
procedure overall very well.

Of note on the CT scan he had a massive amount of bilateral
basilar infiltrates secondary to aspiration, which he had
prior to his episode requiring intubation.  He was brought to
the Surgical Intensive Care Unit and was started on broad
spectrum antibiotics.

1.  Neurologically.  He was sedated initially with propofol,
Ativan and morphine, which are all off now.  He is increasing
mental status.  He is awake, alert and he is slightly slow to
respond, but follows all commands.

2.  Pulmonary.  His cultures have demonstrated MRSA for which
he is on Vanco.  He needs to complete a fourteen day course.
He is on day nine of that at this point in time, which is the
16th.  He requires chest PT and suctioning for his decreased


ability of cough and he is also receiving Atrovent and
Albuterol nebs.

3.  Cardiac.  From a cardiac standpoint he has been
remarkably stable with a normal blood pressure.  He obviously
does not require any pressors at this time and he is stable.

4. Gastrointestinal.  He was started on tube feeds, which he
is on goal at 60.  The exact type will be documented in the
page one via a post caloric feeding tube.  He is to remain
NPO, but to continue follow up tube feeds until his follow up
appointment, which will also be documented on the page one.

5.  Genitourinary.  He has been remarkably stable with good
urine output.  He was diuresed adequately with intermittent
doses of Lasix.  He is not getting a standard dose of Lasix
at this time.  His creatinine on the 16th is 0.8, but his BUN
is elevated at 57.

6.  Hematologic.  His hematocrit have been stable between 31
and 33.  They are 33 today.  He has been receiving subQ
heparin and Venodyne boots for deep venous thrombosis
prophylaxis.

7.  Infectious disease.  He is on as mentioned Vancomycin for
a bronchioalveolar lavage and a sputum culture that
demonstrated staph aureus.  He did also have a pleural tap on
the right side to demonstrate if there is any infection,
which there has not been.  He has also had stool sent off for
C-diff.

8.  Endocrine.  He is requiring sliding scale regular
insulin.  His finger stick in the morning today was 101.
Otherwise his electrolytes have all been stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  He is on Vancomycin 1 gram IV q 24
hours, Atrovent MDI four to six puffs q 4 hours prn.  He is
on Albuterol four to six puffs MDI q 4 hours prn.  He is on
sliding scale regular insulin.  Colace 100 mg b.i.d. per
feeding tube.  SubQ heparin 5000 units b.i.d., vitamin C 500
mg b.i.d., multi vitamin elixir q day, Reglan 10 mg q.i.d.
via the feeding tube q.i.d.  As mentioned he has been getting
intermittent doses of potassium and Lasix, however, none at
this moment in time.

The patient is to follow up in General Surgery Clinic.  This
will be documented on the page one.  Overall his status is
good.  He will be discharged to a rehab facility.  Of note he
does need good chest physical therapy in order to maintain
good pulmonary toilet.






                            [**Name6 (MD) 843**] [**Name8 (MD) 844**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 845**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 103131**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2105-4-3**]  09:57
T:  [**2105-4-3**]  09:55
JOB#:  [**Job Number 103132**]

rp [**2105-4-3**]
