Admission Date:  [**2171-8-27**]     Discharge Date:  [**2171-9-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2100-6-29**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Medicine [**Location (un) **] Firm

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Diarrhea/dehydration/fever.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71-year-old female
with a history of urinary and stool incontinence presenting
with four days of loose watery bowel movements, chills,
emesis x1.  The patient notes that she works in a nursing
home.  Otherwise, she denies any other sick contacts.  [**Name (NI) **]
recent travel or abdominal pain.  She does report chills and
fevers noted to be in the ED of 102.2 F.  Additionally, the
patient notes nausea and anorexia, weakness, dizziness, and
unsteadiness on her feet.

The patient reports that on admission her bowel movements
have become less frequent.  She denies any melena, no bright
red blood per rectum.  Her last p.o. intake was four days
prior to admission.  She states that her symptoms did not
improve and therefore she came to the Emergency Department
with her son-in-law.  The patient denies any recent dietary
changes.  She does note eating a tuna [**Location (un) 6002**] at the nursing
home last week, but denies feeling acutely ill after eating
that.

In the Emergency Department, her temperature was noted to be
102.2, heart rate of 89, creatinine of 1.4, and a BUN of 29.
Baseline creatinine is 0.7.  Additionally, her urinalysis was
notable for large blood, positive nitrites, moderate
bacteria, [**1-23**] epis, greater than 300 proteinuria.  The
patient received 2 liters of normal saline, Zofran, and one
dose of levofloxacin upon admission.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Osteoporosis.
2. Arthritis.
3. Uterine prolapse.
4. History of cellulitis.
5. History of vertigo.
6. History of sciatica.
7. History of viral bronchospasms.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient lives alone.  She works at a nursing
home as a nurse's aide.  The patient does have family members
nearby.  [**Name2 (NI) 7092**] status full.  She denies any smoking or
tobacco.

FAMILY HISTORY:  [**Name (NI) **] brother had an abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair recently and another brother had colorectal
cancer.  No history of diabetes mellitus, kidney disease, or
inflammatory bowel disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  Temperature
max 102.2, pulse 102, blood pressure 138/82, respiratory rate
19, and 99% on room air.  Generally, the patient is thin, ill
appearing, shaking with chills, alert and oriented times
three.  Skin examination notable for cool, noncyanotic
extremities, no rashes, petechiae, or ecchymoses.  HEENT
notable for injected sclerae.  Dry mucous membranes.  No
thyromegaly or nodules, and no lymphadenopathy.  Patient had
a 0.5 cm nodule, moveable, compressible mass in the right
anterior aspect of her neck consistent with a small lymph
node.  Respiratory examination:  Lungs were clear without any
focal dullness.  Cardiovascular examination:  Flat jugular
venous pressure up 45 degrees, tachycardic, irregular rhythm,
normal S1, S2, no murmurs appreciated.  Abdominal
examination:  Active bowel sounds.  Her abdomen was firm due
to frequent muscular contractions from chills, however, there
was no rebound or guarding.  No masses were palpable and was
nontender throughout.  Extremity examination:  Cool,
noncyanotic, dorsalis pedis and posterior popliteal pulses
were not appreciated.  Neurological examination:  Cranial
nerves were grossly intact.  Sensation to light touch,
decreased vibration sense up to ankles bilaterally, 5/5
strength throughout.  Reflexes 2+ and symmetric.  Cerebellar
examination was unremarkable.

STUDIES ON ADMISSION:  Laboratory data:  White blood cell
count 7.5 with 89% polys, hematocrit 35.3, baseline 32-37,
platelets 162,000, MCV 84.  Chemistry profile notable for a
sodium of 131, BUN of 29, creatinine of 1.4 with a baseline
of 0.7, and glucose of 127, anion gap 14.  Urinalysis:  pH
5.5, large blood, positive nitrites, greater than 300
protein, [**1-23**] white blood cells, 0-2 red blood cells, moderate
bacteria, [**1-23**] epis, granular casts [**4-30**], culture pending.

CHEST X-RAY:  Hyperinflation, no evidence of pneumonia or
CHF.

[**2171-1-19**] right upper quadrant ultrasound.  Large stone
in the gallbladder, no cholecystitis, adenomyosis of
gallbladder wall.

EKG from admission:  Regular rate of 100, normal axis, [**Street Address(2) 7093**] depressions in V3 through V6, question of supraventricular
extrasystole.  P waves are present.

Echocardiogram from [**2171-2-2**] showed normal left atrium,
ejection fraction 60-70%, no wall motion abnormalities
present, [**11-22**]+ AR, trivial MR, mild PA systolic hypertension.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Diarrhea:  Differential of which included infectious,
malabsorption versus osmotic.  Given the patient's history of
multiple exposures at her work environment, it is likely that
this is consistent with a viral gastroenteritis, however,
with her high fevers, it is possible that she may have had a
bacterial process as well.  Patient was, however, guaiac
negative on her admission and remained guaiac negative.

Patient did not have any recent antibiotic use, however,
Clostridium difficile toxin assay was sent and was negative.
Patient was maintained on aggressive IV fluid rehydration and
her acute diarrhea was self limited and began to improve
throughout her hospital course.  Stool cultures as well as
cytotoxin assay were all negative.

2. Fevers and dehydration:  As noted above, the patient's
symptoms improved with IV fluid rehydration.  However, her
fevers persistently spiked as high as 103 on a daily basis.
Patient was given empiric antibiotics for her probable UTI,
which included levofloxacin.  Abdominal examination remained
unremarkable.  All cultures remained negative.  It was
unclear as the source of the fevers, however, most likely
related to her viral gastroenteritis as well as a UTI is the
most likely sources.

Given the patient's transient rise in her LFTs, an ALT of 49,
AST of 53, and an alkaline phosphatase of 241, the thought
was entertained that perhaps the patient had a hepatobiliary
process.  However, in the absence of any abdominal pain or
discomfort, this was highly unlikely.  Hepatitis A serologies
were sent with a IgM that was negative.

Right upper quadrant ultrasound and CT of the abdomen and
pelvis were also unremarkable for any acute bowel or
hepatobiliary process.

3. Cardiovascular:  The patient was noted to have an atrial
arrhythmia on admission, which had been confirmed with prior
EKGs.  The patient had noted on admission for this arrhythmia
with rule out MI, however, there was no dictation summary to
review regarding that admission.  Patient was not kept on any
medications, therefore it was determined that this was not
considered to be a pathologic arrhythmia.

On the [**1-28**], the patient's telemetry was notable
for a heart rate range from 150-220 which was considered
irregular.  An EKG was notable for rapid ventricular
response, the pattern consistent with atrial fibrillation and
atrial flutter.  The patient did not have any symptoms with
this arrhythmia, however, given the rate as well as 1 mm to
1.5 mm ST segment depressions in the inferolateral leads, the
patient was started on IV Lopressor as well as p.o. Lopressor
without much effect.  Subsequently, the patient received
adenosine pushes x2 without any effect.  Finally, the patient
was given diltiazem IV bolus with a subsequent response in
her heart rate down to the mid 100s, however, her blood
pressure dropped as well given this relative hypotension with
an active atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter pattern.  EP
consult was obtained, and the patient was transferred to the
CCU for possible cardioversion.

However, upon arrival to the CCU, the patient spontaneously
converted back to sinus rhythm with a regular rate.  Patient
was maintained on Lopressor throughout her hospital course
with intermittent hypotension, however, the patient remained
asymptomatic and was never orthostatic.  Repeat
echocardiogram was obtained showing new TR which was not
noted on her prior echocardiogram.

He