Admission Date:  [**2154-12-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2155-2-17**]


Service:  MEDICINE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 3075**] is an 85 year-old
male with a history of gastrointestinal bleeds, known AVMs,
and a complicated pulmonary history, which dates back to [**Month (only) 205**]
when he developed a right upper lobe pneumonia and treated
with Levofloxacin, complicated by right exudative
peripneumonic effusion, which was treated with Levofloxacin
and Flagyl.  In [**Month (only) 216**] a bronchoscopy revealed an apical
right endobronchial lesion with biopsy and BAL negative for
malignancy.  In [**Month (only) **] he developed alpha streptococcus
pneumonia complicated by empyema and underwent decortication.
He was initially treated with Ceftriaxone and Flagyl and
then was changed to Penicillin G times two weeks and
discharged to rehab.  A follow up bronchoscopy on [**12-12**]
was unremarkable and showed no endobronchial lesion.  A few
hours after the procedure the patient had desaturation to 75%
on room air and was febrile to 101.

The patient's gastrointestinal history includes prior
gastrointestinal bleed times two presumed secondary to
gastric AVMs seen on esophagogastroduodenoscopy in [**2154-11-30**].  He has had two colonoscopies one in [**2153-6-30**]
revealing an adenomatous polyp and one in [**2154-7-31**],
which was normal.  In the Emergency Room his chief complaint
was decreased energy.  He also reported cough and dyspnea.
He was found to be afebrile with stable blood pressure,
however, his saturation was 68% on room air and came up to
97% on 6 liters.  He had course sounds bilaterally.  His
arterial blood gases in the Emergency Room was 7.42/42/70/28
on 5 liters nasal cannula.  Chest x-ray revealed increased
air space opacities in the right, mid and lower lung zones
consistent with pneumonia, as well as a stable right pleural
thickening/effusion.  A chest CT showed multiple prominent
mediastinal lymph nodes, loculated pleural fluid on the right
decreased in size from the previous study, new air space
consolidation in the right upper middle and lower lobes and
the left lower lobe.  He was started on Levofloxacin, Flagyl
and Vancomycin.  In the Emergency Department it was also
discovered that his hematocrit was 14.  He had a benign
abdominal examination, dark brown guaiac positive stool.
Nasogastric lavage revealed one small clot, positive bile, no
blood or coffee grounds.  An abdominal CT showed infrarenal
aortic aneurysm measuring up to 6.9 by 6.2 cm increased from
6.2 by 5.3 cm on a study in [**2152-12-30**], no
retroperitoneal hemorrhage, extensive sigmoid diverticulosis.

He was subsequently admitted to the MICU where he received a
total of 6 units of packed red blood cells and underwent
endoscopy, which revealed gastric AVMs none of which were
actively bleeding and some of which were cauterized.  In the
unit he was also continued on triple antibiotics.  At the
time of call out to the floor he was without coplaints,
denied shortness of breath, chest pain or abdominal pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Recurrent pneumonias as detailed
above.  2.  Empyema status post decortication as above.  3.
Congestive heart failure, diastolic function, normal systolic
function on [**2153-6-30**] echocardiogram.  4.  Hypertension.  5.
Chronic renal insufficiency, baseline creatinine 2.3 to 3.
6. Abdominal aortic aneurysm.  7.  History of
gastrointestinal bleeds secondary to gastric AVMs.  8.  Iron
deficiency anemia, baseline hematocrit 25 to 30.  9.  Peptic
ulcer disease.  10. Negative colonoscopy in [**2154-7-31**].  11.
 Chololithiasis.  12.  Nephrolithiasis.  13.  Left carotid
endarterectomy.  14. 90% right internal carotid artery
stenosis.  15.  History of sundowning.  16.  Osteoarthritis.
17.  Macular degeneration.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION FROM REHAB:  Lasix 20 mg po once a
day, Norvasc 10 mg po once a day, Lopresor 50 mg po twice a
day, aspirin 325 mg po once a day, Epogen 3000 units subQ q
week, Niferex 50 mg po twice a day, Pericolace one capsule po
twice a day, Lactulose 30 cc q.h.s.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with wife and daughter.
Smoking history of three cigars per day.  Quit three months
ago.  Remote cigarette smoking history.  Quit in [**2112**].
Drinks two beers and two glasses of brandy per night.
Retired mechanic.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.6.  Heart rate 87.
Blood pressure 166/80.  Respiratory rate 32.  96% on 3.5
liters.  In general sleeping, easily arousable, breathing
rapidly, but not appearing to be in acute distress.  HEENT
pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  Oropharynx
clear.  Neck no LAD.  JVP 9 to 10 cm.  Lungs bilateral
crackles and wheezing almost all the way up, question coarse
breath sounds, possible transmission of upper respiratory
sounds.  Cardiac regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs
or gallops.  Abdomen soft, nondistended, nontender.  No
organomegaly or masses.  Normoactive bowel sounds.
Extremities warm 2+ pitting edema to just above ankles
bilaterally.  Skin positive spider angiomata.  Neurological
grossly nonfocal.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 13.6, hematocrit 14.6,
platelets 354, INR 1.1, sodium 139, potassium 3.8, BUN 44,
creatinine 2.1, glucose 130.  CK 35, troponin less then .3.
Micro studies, blood cultures times two negative.  BAL gram
stain 1+ gram positive coxae in pairs and chains.  BAL
culture consistent with respiratory flora.  AFB stain
negative.  BAL, fungal and AFB cultures negative.  Radiology
studies as above in history of present illness.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 85 year-old male with a
complicated pulmonary history status post resent bronchoscopy
presenting with hypoxia, patient with history of
gastrointestinal bleeding secondary to gastric AVMs
presenting with hematocrit of 14.6.

1.  Pulmonary and infectious disease:  The patient was
started on Levofloxacin, vancomycin and Flagyl for presumed
post bronchoscopy pneumonia.  His antibiotic coverage was
narrowed to Levofloxacin and Flagyl after his micro studies
returned.  On admission to the floor the patient appeared
clinically to be in failure with elevated JVP, crackles and
wheezing on examination and bilateral pitting edema.  He was
status post transfusion of 6 units of packed red blood cells,
therefore he was diuresed with intravenous Lasix with
subsequent improvement in his O2 saturation.

2.  Gastrointestinal:  Patient with a hematocrit of 14.6 on
admission, which came up to 34.8 after transfusion of 6
units.  The patient underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy,
which showed gastric AVMs, which were not bleeding.  Some of
them were cauterized.  The patient was continued on Protonix.
He was followed by the GI team who recommended that should he
have a recurrence of bleeding in the future, estrogen should
be considered.

3.  Cardiovascular:  Patient with a history of hypertension
and abdominal aortic aneurysm.  He was continued on his
outpatient cardiac medications including Lopressor and
Norvasc.  He received Lasix diuresis as detailed above.  His
aspirin was held secondary to gastrointestinal bleeding.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Discharged to home in stable condition.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Post bronchoscopy pneumonia.
2.  Gastrointestinal bleeding secondary to gastric AVMs.
3.  Congestive heart failure.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Levofloxacin 250 mg po once a day
times fourteen day course, Flagyl 500 mg po q 8 hours times
fourteen days, Protonix 40 mg po once a day, Lasix 20 mg po
twice a day, Norvasc 10 mg po once a day, Lopressor 50 mg po
twice a day.  Epogen 3000 units subQ q week, Niferex 50 mg po
twice a day.  Pericolace one cap po twice a day.  Lactulose
30 cc po q.h.s.

DISCHARGE TREATMENTS:  VNA for blood draws, hematocrit,
potassium and creatinine, monitoring of O2 sats, home health
aid, weekly weight for congestive heart failure, home
physical therapy evaluation.

FOLLOW UP:  Follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 11825**] and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 2146**].







                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1197**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 4925**]
