Admission Date:  [**2160-6-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2160-7-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2090-11-19**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 69-year-old man was
transferred from [**Hospital6 5016**] on the [**10-24**] to
[**Hospital1 69**].  He has a history of
coronary artery disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia,
prostate and lung cancer with severe carotid stenosis and
transient ischemic attacks who is referred now with the
abrupt onset of speech difficulty and right-sided weakness.
The patient had been hospitalized briefly in [**Month (only) 116**] with speech
difficulty and right-sided weakness.  His studies back in [**Month (only) 116**]
showed severe bilateral carotid stenosis and there was
thought to be a critical stenosis on the right, a marked
stenosis on the left.  CT scan was normal and the patient had
been on aspirin and was then started on Plavix.  He was
referred to [**Hospital3 **] and he was scheduled for a carotid
endarterectomy a week prior to his admission.  On the day of
admission aspirin and Plavix had been stopped in anticipation
of this upcoming surgery, however, while at home patient fell
asleep, complained to his wife of not feeling well and found
him a few hours later slumped over in the bed and felt that
his speech was slurred and not very comprehensible.  He
complained of double vision at the time.  Paramedics reported
that he was moving his extremities, however, developed
right-sided weakness when he arrived at [**Hospital6 5016**].

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:  Lipitor, Cardia,
hydrochlorothiazide, bronchodilators.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery bypass graft in [**2152**].

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He had been a smoker for the majority of his
life though only smoking a few cigarettes a day.  He quit in
[**2160-5-15**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  He was awake and fairly alert with
fluent speech.  No dysarthria.  He repeats well and there is
no anomia.  He follows commands.  Cranial nerves:  Pupils
were small and reactive to light.  Fundi were not seen.  He
had a fairly pronounced vertical gaze palsy.  There was
suggestion of slight lateral rectus weakness.  Visual fields
were full to confrontation testing.  There was mild right
central facial weakness.  The other cranial nerves were
intact.  Motor examination showed no drift and normal
strength to confrontation.  Fine finger movements were intact
but finger-to-nose testing was ataxic, especially on the
right.  The patient's findings were remarkable for a vertical
gaze palsy, maybe a right VI nerve palsy which relates to his
complaint of double vision.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] where he was admitted to the hospital, was started on
anticoagulation and carotid duplex was performed.  He was
admitted to the Vascular Service there and a stroke consult
was done.

LABORATORY ON ADMISSION:  White count 13.7, hematocrit 34.6,
platelet count 209,000, PT 12.8, PTT 36.4, INR 1.1.  Sodium
137, potassium 4.0, BUN 24, creatinine 1.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The stroke team recommended stopping
heparin on his admission day and just continuing on aspirin
and Plavix with their considering recent strokes.  The MRI
showed acute stroke in the paramedian thalamus and left of
the midbrain.  He also had small areas of stroke in the
cerebellum.  They recommended a four vessel angiogram and a
carotid endarterectomy on the right carotid and once again
the patient was now on the 11th started on heparin.  The
patient was monitored on the floor where he did continue with
double vision and he was prepped for the carotid artery
endarterectomy.  His repeat carotid ultrasound was completed
which shows a narrowing of 80-99% bilaterally of the tardive
RPPCA suggest proximal disease.  On the 12th the patient
continued with double vision.  His blood pressure was in the
140's to 180's and no other distress.  The patient was made
known to the Neurosurgery Service where he was to have an
angiogram done.  On the [**5-26**] he had an angiogram
which showed greater than 85% left vertebral artery stenosis,
an occluded right vertebral artery.  He had greater than 85%
of the right common carotid bifurcation stenosis, 75%
innominate origin stenosis.  It was noted that patient had a
left groin hematoma after the angiogram where he was
monitored closely post-angiogram.  He was also on telemetry
during this time.  He did end up having an ultrasound of the
groin to rule out pseudo-aneurysm.  The Stroke Team, the
Neurology Team and the Vascular Team decided that the patient
should have a right carotid endarterectomy and then have a
stenting of his left vertebral artery.  On the 13th he did
have the ultrasound of his left groin which showed no
pseudo-aneurysm.  The patient was kept on heparin during this
time.  On the [**5-31**] the patient had a right carotid
endarterectomy done.  He tolerated the procedure well.  On
postoperative day one he was awake, alert and oriented.
Incision was clean, dry and intact.  He was reevaluated by
the Stroke Service the same day.  His blood pressure was
140/46, heart rate 74, respirations 14, temperature 97.8.  At
that point he was transferred back to Neurology Service.  The
patient did receive one unit of red blood cells on the 18th.
It was noted on the 19th that he had slight swelling of the
surgical scar, otherwise the patient was okay.  On the 19th
it was noted that that scar had serous fluid.  No pus or
edema.  The site was monitored by the Vascular Service.  The
patient's pain was under control with Percocet.  A follow-up
ultrasound on the 20th showed a patent right carotid, small
right neck hematoma, no evidence of pseudo-aneurysm.  His
left groin hematoma was small, however, improving.  The
patient remained awake, alert and oriented.  His neurological
status was unchanged.  During the postoperative period the
patient was on aspirin and Plavix.  His staples were removed
from the surgical neck site on the 21st.  The site was dry
and intact.  He continued to be followed by Neurology and
Neurosurgery.  Labs on the 23rd showed white count of 7.5,
hematocrit of 39.2, 297,000 for platelets.  On the 25th
patient did have a left vertebroangioplasty and stent.
Estimated blood loss was minimal.  The patient did well with
the procedure.  He woke up awake, alert and oriented.  He had
no drift.  Grasp was [**5-19**] bilaterally.  Lower extremities were
full.  He remained on heparin post stenting at 800 units an
hour and continued on aspirin and Plavix.  The patient was
monitored in the Trauma Intensive Care Unit postoperatively.
He was kept on a Nipride drip to keep his blood pressure less
than 140.  A Rheumatology consult was asked for on the 26th
because of right-sided knee swelling.  There was no erythema,
however, there was increase in warmth.  Patient was thought
to have heterotopic ossification.  It was thought not to be
an infectious process.  Patient was already on aspirin.  They
recommended topical aspirin cream.  The patient was monitored
in the Intensive Care Unit.  On the 27th he continued to need
Nipride to keep his blood pressure less than 140.  He
remained neurologically intact.  Case Management was
following him at this time.  He was moved out of the Unit on
the 28th.  His groin incision was noted to be intact with no
infectious process noted.  No further hematoma.  He remained
neurologically intact.  His blood pressure was well
controlled on oral antihypertensives.  Physical Therapy and
Occupational Therapy were involved in the patient's care and
they recommended home physical therapy and also for Nursing
to follow up with the patient to check blood pressure.
Rheumatology's final recommendations were prednisone taper,
NSAIDS and some local therapy to his right knee.  Patient was
treated for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
urinary tract infection diagnosed on the [**6-10**].  He
was started on intravenous vancomycin.  Infectious Disease
recommended that he start on dicloxacillin for one week after
discharge.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Include:
1.  Atorvastatin 20 mg one tablet q. day.
2.  __________ 110 mcg two puffs b.i.d.
3.  Albuterol 90 one to two puffs every q. 4-6h.
4.  Oxycodone one to two tablets q. 4