Admission Date:  [**2134-3-9**]     Discharge Date: [**2134-5-6**]

Date of Birth:   [**2134-3-9**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Neonatology

NOTE:  This in an interim summary covering the dates of
[**2134-4-9**] through [**2134-5-6**].  For more details
regarding this infant's hospitalization please see previous
interim summary dictated by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 449**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] and signed by
Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] dated [**2134-4-6**].

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  [**Known lastname 10733**] is an almost 3-month old
former 28-week gestational age infant whose major health
issue is some mild-to-moderate bronchopulmonary dysplasia
which is resolving.

He was born at 560 g to a 41-year-old primigravida mom whose
pregnancy was complicated by chronic hypertension,
oligohydramnios, and notation of intrauterine growth
retardation at 25 weeks.  Karyotype was 46 XY.   Ultrasound
four days prior to delivery showed decreased diastolic flow
and fetal decelerations.  The mom was treated with a complete
course of betamethasone prior to delivery of the infant at 25
weeks gestation.

Labor history was remarkable for a cesarean section due to
absent diastolic flow and abnormalities on fetal heart
monitoring.  In the delivery room the patient emerged
vigorous with good respiratory effort.  He required a little
bit of positive pressure ventilation as well.  Apgar scores
were 6 and 7 and 1 minute and 5 minutes, respectively.  He
was transferred to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Weight of 560 g (less
than 10th percentile), OFC of 22.5 cm (less than 10th
percentile), length of 29 cm (less than 10th percentile).
The infant was pink, active, nondysmorphic, well perfused and
saturated.  He had a normal head and neck examination with
anterior fontanel which was flat.  Skin was without lesions.
 Cardiac examination evaluated normal first heart sound and
second heart sound, without murmurs.  Lungs were coarse
bilaterally with fair aeration.  The abdomen was within
normal limits, and soft.  Genitalia was remarkable for a
small phallus with chordae.  The infant had hypospadias, a
urethral opening was approximately one-half the way down on
the caudal side of the phallus.  There was a gonad noted in
the right inguinal canal.  The anus was patent.  The hips
were normal.  The spine was intact, and neurologic
examination was nonfocal and age appropriate.

The infant was admitted the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit for
further management of prematurity and intrauterine growth
restriction.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:

1.  RESPIRATORY:  The patient was intubated on day of life
one and was given one dose of surfactant.  He weaned
progressively on the ventilator over the course of his first
night, but was maintained on synchronized intermittent
mechanical ventilation due to problems with acidosis which
developed over time.  His ventilatory requirements then
subsequently increased over the first weeks of life.  At 28
days of age, the infant was on pretty moderate-to-low level
of ventilatory support with peak inspiratory pressure of 19,
a positive end-expiratory pressure of 5, and a respiratory
rate of 18 on 30% to 40% oxygen.  He was approaching
extubation when he became ill; likely due to Klebsiella
pneumoniae.  His ventilatory requirements increased
dramatically over a 24-hour time period prior to the start of
a new service.

The infant was transitioned to high-frequency oscillatory
ventilation and remained on that for the following 10 days.
The infant was slowly weaned off of his high-frequency
ventilation directly to CPAP.  He received two weeks of CPAP
and has transitioned to nasal cannula over the past four
days.  He has been receiving 400 cc of nasal cannula oxygen
blended to an oxygen concentration of around 30% to 35%.  He
has a mild degree of tachypnea, but he is actually doing
reasonably well with minimal retractions.  His respiratory
rate is unlabored enough that he can tolerate po feeds
every other feed.  His only medication is caffeine.  He is
not on any diuretics, and he has had minimal apnea.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient was initially hypotensive
and was started on a dopamine infusion which reached a
maximum of 22 mcg/kg per minute.  He also had a significant
metabolic acidosis along with this.  He received three doses
of hydrocortisone early in life.  He never had a murmur.  He
never had any signs or symptoms of a PDA.  He never had an
echocardiogram suggestive of a PDA.  The patient was
successfully weaned off of dopamine by day of life four.
There have been no other concerns from a cardiovascular
standpoint, and today the infant is well perfused with no
murmur and a benign cardiovascular examination.

3.  ENDOCRINOLOGY:  Due to intrauterine growth restriction,
initial hypotension, and hypoglycemia, in addition to small
phallus Endocrine was consulted.  The patient did receive
hydrocortisone as noted above and had rapid improvement in
both sugars and blood pressures.  With normal chromosomes,
cortisol levels, subsequent glucoses, blood pressures, and
with a phallus size which they deemed to be within the range
of normal, they felt that there was no further endocrine
workup needed at this time, and they signed off.

The infant has had stable blood sugars throughout the rest of
the hospital stay.

4.  GENITOURINARY:  An abdominal ultrasound was done looking
at internal structures due to the presence of small phallus.
There was an early suggestion of mild hydronephrosis, but
repeat examination showed that this was actually normal.  He
will be followed as an outpatient for his hypospadias.
Urology was consulted while he was in house.

5.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION:  Due to growth restriction
he did require some boluses of D-10 early in life, but his
sugars stabilized quite well, and he had a good response to
hydrocortisone.  He started taking breast milk on day of life
six and was steadily advanced until day of life 14 when he
reached full volume feeds.  He was briefly off of enteral
feeds during his illness with Klebsiella pneumoniae, but this
was only for four to five days.  Feeds were reinstituted
while on the oscillatory ventilator since he did not show any
signs of significant hypotension.  Since on CPAP and now
nasal cannula, he has been on full volume feeds of 32 and now
30 calories per ounce of mother's milk.  He has been gaining
approximately 19 g/kg per day on this regimen, and we have
been happy with his growth.

His one abnormal laboratory value of note has been an
alkaline phosphatase in excess of 1100 which was noted
approximately two weeks ago.  Bone films to evaluate for the
presence of nutritional rickets have been noncontributory.
He seems to have normal growth plates with no evidence of
splaying.  A repeat alkaline phosphatase level is lower than
before.  Our plan is to repeat another alkaline phosphatase
level on [**5-7**] to insure that it is resolving.  We are
also doing liver function tests to look for any other
etiology for an elevated alkaline phosphatase; although,
there does not seem to be any evidence of cholestasis.

The infant is receiving supplemental vitamin E and
iron in addition to MCT and HMF as part of his caloric
supplementation.

6.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The infant had some hyperbilirubinemia,
and phototherapy was instituted from day of life
two through day of life six.  He had a fairly strong rebound,
and hence was restarted on phototherapy from day of life 7 to
day of life 20.  His peak bilirubin was 6.3 during his
hospital stay.

Due to the presumed losses of bicarbonate from his kidneys,
he was started enteral Bicitra for approximately six days
during his hospital course.  He is no longer on that.

7.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient had a sepsis evaluation
on the first day of life where he received seven days of
ampicillin and gentamicin.  He then received 10 days of a
combination of cephalosporin and gentamicin due to what was
ultimately diagnosed as Klebsiella pneumoniae.  He was
initially placed on ceftazidime when we received cultures
that were positive for gram-negative organisms; not knowing