Admission Date:  [**2197-11-21**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2137-4-27**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Location (un) **] MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 60 year old woman with
a history of Stage 3A nonsmall cell lung cancer, status post
right pneumonectomy whose medical course was further
complicated by bronchopleural fistula and development of
empyema in the pneumonectomy cavity.  She was also status
post rib resection and tube drainage.  She has also had
stenosis of her left main stem bronchus for which she had
stent placed.  She has had multiple episodes of
pneumonia/bronchitis with Methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus in the past and most recently with
Pseudomonas.  Her course has also been complicated by
bronchopleural fistula.  Over the past three days the patient
has experienced increasing shortness of breath and
secretions.  She denies fevers, chills or chest pains.  She
was admitted to computerized tomography scan on [**11-21**]
for rigid bronchoscopy.  Following the bronchoscopy in the
Post Anesthesia Care Unit she was complaining of increased
shortness of breath.  She was treated with nebulizers.  She
continued to experience increased secretions and respiratory
distress over night and was taken for an urgent
rebronchoscopy, both flexible and rigid.  She was found to
have a patent left main stem with moderate secretions.  The
stent was removed and a biopsy was done around the site to
rule out recurrent cancer.  There was also noticed to be a 2
mm right posterior fistula consistent with her bronchopleural
fistula.  This was sealed with fibrin glue.  Following the
procedure she continued to have large amount of secretions
and respiratory distress and was ultimately intubated.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On initial examination prior to
transfer to the Medicine Intensive Care Unit she was sedated
but reactive in no acute distress.  She was intubated.  Her
vital signs revealed temperature of 98.9??????, heartrate of 108,
respiratory rate of 12, and blood pressure 92/61 with an
oxygen saturation of 98%.  Her neck was supple without
lymphadenopathy.  Her chest had loud upper respiratory sounds
but was clear at the left base.  Heart was regular rate and
rhythm without murmur, rub or gallop and slightly
tachycardiac.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended with
normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities revealed no cyanosis,
clubbing or edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  Significant laboratory data reveals an
admission white blood cell count of 11.9, hematocrit 30.9,
and platelets 522.  Chem-7 revealed a sodium of 143,
potassium 4.2, chloride 106, bicarbonate 26, BUN 20,
creatinine 0.8.  Her arterial blood gases immediately prior
to intubation was 7.23/66/64.  Bronchial washings from her
initial rigid bronchoscopy showed 3+ polymorphonucleocytes
and 4+ gram positive cocci in pairs and clusters with heavy
growth of Staphylococcus aureus.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  She was admitted to the Medicine Intensive
Care Unit where she was watched carefully and sources for her
respiratory distress were investigated.  She had a good
oxygenation, adequate ventilation and minimal secretions
throughout her stay.  It was felt that her failure to wean
off of the ventilator may have been related to anxiety.  For
this she was given Ativan and Roxicodone as needed as she
takes similar medicines at home.  She underwent bronchoscopy
on at least a couple of occasions to verify that secretions
were adequate and there was no mucous plugging or other
explanation for why she might be failing extubation, weaning.
These studies revealed no clear reason for why she should be
having difficulty weaning from the ventilator.  She was also
started on Ceftazidime and Vancomycin given the presence of
both Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and
Pseudomonas in her sputum.  While it is quite likely that
these are both colonizers given the heavy secretions, it was
thought to treat empirically on the chance that a
tracheobronchitis may be contributing to difficulty in
weaning her from the ventilator.  From a cardiovascular
perspective her cardiac enzymes were cycled to rule out the
possibility of myocardial infarction.  She remained with a
lowgrade tachycardia throughout her hospital course.
Evidently she tends to be tachycardiac at baseline, even at
home.  Nevertheless, chest computerized tomography scan was
obtained with angiography to rule out pulmonary embolus.  The
study was also negative.

On [**11-26**], the patient was tolerating minimal
ventilatory support and was extubated.  However, after two
hours she was clearly in a significant amount of distress,
becoming red in the face, very uncomfortable and not moving
air well.  She was reintubated.  On [**12-4**], the patient
self-extubated and immediately began having difficulties with
breathing.  Nebulizers were tried at this time.  Ativan was
also tried.  Racemic epinephrine was also tried.
Nevertheless, she had significant respiratory distress and
began desaturating into the 80s, 70s and even 60s.
Anesthesia was called and the patient was reintubated.  In
addition to her pulmonary difficulties during this admission
the patient also experienced an upper gastrointestinal bleed
on [**11-24**].  Esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed
esophagitis with superficial ulcerations which were thought
to be consistent with nasogastric tube trauma.  However, the
hematocrit was low and the patient was transfused 3 units of
packed red blood cells.  It should be noted that the patient
was a very difficult cross-match and it took nearly 36 hours
to locate compatible blood for transfusion.  Fortunately she
experienced no further bleeding episodes and remained stable
from a cardiovascular standpoint throughout her admission.
From an oncological perspective biopsies done at the time of
her bronchoscopy ultimately showed poorly differentiated
nonsmall cell carcinoma.  Numerous discussions were held with
the patient and her health care proxy and other family
members.  It became clear that the patient's pulmonary status
is not such much an acute decompensation as it is
representation of a continuing decline in her pulmonary
status over the past several months.  It is unlikely that she
would be able to support her ventilation without the
assistance of a




                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 968**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 11847**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2197-12-7**]  15:17
T:  [**2197-12-7**]  16:39
JOB#:  [**Job Number 11848**]
