Admission Date:  [**2184-11-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2185-1-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2107-8-22**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77-year-old
gentleman with a history of coronary artery disease who is
status post coronary artery bypass graft and mitral valve
replacement in [**2171**].

The patient awoke on the day of admission with paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea which was not improved with getting out of
bed.  The patient denied any history of the same and is able
to walk two miles every day without dyspnea or chest pain.

The patient was taken to an outside hospital where he was
found to be in respiratory distress.  The patient was placed
on [**Hospital1 **]-level positive airway pressure and was transferred to
[**Hospital1 69**] for further treatment of
his congestive heart failure.  Prior to his transfer, the
patient was given Lasix and Solu-Medrol with improvement in
his respiratory status.

At the time, the patient denied any chest pain or
diaphoresis.  The patient had not had any chest pain since
his coronary artery bypass graft.  The patient denied any
recent changes in his medications or dietary indiscretions.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post mitral valve replacement with a #27 [**Location (un) **]
and coronary artery bypass graft times four in [**2171**].
2.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; status post permanent
pacemaker for tachy-brady syndrome.
3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (with an FEV1 of 1
liter).
4.  Status post cerebrovascular accident in [**2184-5-2**]
(treated with t-PA with no residual).
5.  Depression.
6.  Borderline diabetes.
7.  Hypertension.
8.  Hypercholesterolemia.

PREOPERATIVE MEDICATIONS:
 1.  K-Dur 20 mEq by mouth once per day.
 2.  Hydralazine 25 mg by mouth four times per day.
 3.  Isordil 30 mg by mouth three times per day.
 4.  Aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Lasix 80 mg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Zocor 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Verapamil 120 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Fluoxetine 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 9.  Nexium 40 mg by mouth every other day.
10.  Coumadin.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has reported an allergy to
INTRAVENOUS CONTRAST as well as ACE INHIBITORS.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted
to [**Hospital1 69**] for further workup of
his congestive heart failure.

An echocardiogram obtained on the day of admission revealed
an ejection fraction of 55% with a flail mitral leaflet, 3+
mitral regurgitation, elevated pulmonary artery pressures,
decreased right ventricular systolic function, and no
regional wall motion abnormalities.

The patient's initial cardiac enzymes were negative for a
myocardial infarction.  The patient was started on diuretics.

The patient was also noted on admission to have elevated
liver function tests with an aspartate aminotransferase of
147, alanine-aminotransferase of 100, alkaline phosphatase
was 552, and total bilirubin was 0.4   This was initially
attributed to hepatic congestion from heart failure.

The patient was also noted to have an elevated white blood
cell count.  It was felt that the patient had a bronchitis or
pneumonia; however, subsequent sputum cultures were negative.

A Pulmonary Medicine consultation was obtained due to the
patient's developing hemoptysis.  They felt the hemoptysis
was due to the patient's congestive heart failure and
anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation and recommended
following chest x-rays and obtaining a computed tomography
scan.  They felt the patient was at moderate risk for surgery
as the patient had a FEV1 of 1 liter.

The patient had a computed tomography scan of his chest and
abdomen which was negative for any evidence of malignancy.
The patient was also started on Natrecor to aid in his
diuresis.

The patient was taken to the Cardiac Catheterization
Laboratory on [**12-2**] prior taking the patient to taking
the patient to surgery.  The cardiac catheterization showed a
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 28, pulmonary artery
pressure of 90/39, and left ventricular end-diastolic
pressure of 19.  There was a totally occluded mid left
anterior descending artery, totally occluded proximal left
circumflex, totally occluded proximal right coronary artery.
There was a patent saphenous vein graft to first obtuse
marginal, and second obtuse marginal, and left anterior
descending artery.  There was an 80% lesion in the saphenous
vein graft to the posterior descending artery.  The lesion
was stented with a cypher stent.

The patient also underwent an evaluation by the Dental
Service preoperatively for his mitral valve replacement.  The
Dental Service recommended an Oral Surgery consultation for
extraction of several teeth.  The patient was seen by Oral
Surgery, and they recommended extraction of teeth prior to
being taken to the operating room.

On [**12-2**], it was noted that the patient's lower
extremities were cool but with dopplerable pulses.  It was
noted late in the day that the patient developed a diffuse
erythematous rash for which he was treated with Benadryl.

A Neurology Service consultation was obtained to evaluate the
patient for his operative risk due to his prior
cerebrovascular accident.  Carotid ultrasounds were obtained
which showed mild plaque in the right and left internal
carotid arteries with a narrowing of less than 40%.

The patient underwent an arterial examination of his lower
extremities due to the delayed capillary refill and cool
temperature.  This showed mild-to-moderate right tibial
disease with a normal atrial flow in the left leg.

Early in the morning on [**12-4**], the patient became acutely
short of breath and hypoxic.  The patient was noted to have
cool hands and feet with delayed capillary refill.  There was
a very erythematous rash on face, torso, thighs, and back.
It was decided later in the day to transfer the patient from
the floor to the Coronary Care Unit for further workup.

Upon transfer to the Coronary Care Unit, the patient was
started on Nipride infusion to try to decrease his pulmonary
artery pressures and improve his heart failure.  The
Neurology Service read the results of the computed tomography
scan which showed a lacunar infarction without evidence of
embolic or water shed infarctions.  They felt the patient was
cleared for cardiac surgery.  In the Coronary Care Unit, the
patient was mildly improved with afterload reduction.

A Dermatology consultation was obtained for the patient's
rash.  There was concern that the patient's rash was early
TEN versus orthodromic drug reaction versus staph scalded
skin syndrome.  Several punch biopsies were taken.  The
patient's antibiotics, Plavix, and captopril were
discontinued.  The results of these biopsies showed
hypersensitivity dermatitis which was felt to be most likely
due to captopril.

On [**12-5**], the patient was taken to the operating room
with Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Service for teeth
extractions.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  The
patient was placed on clindamycin peri-procedure for
endocarditis prophylaxis.  Blood cultures which were drawn at
the time to rule out staph scalded skin were negative.

On [**12-6**], Pulmonary Medicine felt that the patient's
preoperative hemoptysis was due to heart failure and
anticoagulation.  They recommended postoperative pulmonary
followup.

At this time in the Coronary Care Unit, the patient was on a
Nipride drip with a stable pulmonary status.  The patient's
rash continued to slowly improve with some skin fluffing and
significant erythema.  The patient had an elevated white
blood cell count which was felt possibly to be due to the
rash.  The patient was continued on clindamycin for
prophylaxis.

Cardiac surgery continued to be delayed until the patient's
rash improved.

On [**12-8**], the Allergy Service was consulted for the rash
which by then diagnosed to be hypersensitivity dermatitis.
It had initially been felt that the intravenous dye could be
a culprit; however, because of the biopsy results, it was
felt that captopril was the most likely etiology.  The
Allergy Service noted that it was a ....................
process, and skin testing was not a reli