Admission Date:  [**2166-3-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2166-3-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2095-12-27**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS;  This is a 70 year old man with a
complaint of increased shortness of breath over the past
several days prior to admission, positive cough with clear
sputum, no hemoptysis, increased right lower extremity edema
with erythema, pain.  The patient was found to have a deep
vein thrombosis in his right lower extremity in the Emergency
Department by ultrasound.  CTA in the Emergency Department
revealed a pulmonary embolus in the subsegmental branches of
the pulmonary arterial vasculature.  This was considered a
small pulmonary embolus, however, the patient was
substantially dyspneic and had a large oxygen requirement.
The patient was reported to be on five liters of home oxygen
for his diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
however, it was not clear whether the patient had been on his
oxygen prior to admission.  Therefore, the patient was
transferred directly from the Emergency Department to the
[**Hospital Ward Name 12573**] Intensive Care Unit for close monitoring of his
respiratory status.  The patient is a poor historian but does
complain of chronic constant shortness of breath and
occasional chest pain with occasional nausea, vomiting,
diarrhea, occasional dysuria and no fevers, chills or sweats.
The patient does report paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and
orthopnea and always has to sleep on at least three pillows.
The patient states that he has not taken his medications for
several days because he "ran out".  The patient's home
situation is unclear.  [**Name2 (NI) **] does not have his own home and
lives with various different relatives.  Much of the history
was ascertained by the patient's wife who is known
schizophrenic and suffers from paranoid delusions.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease, the patient's ejection fraction
is 20%.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  The patient has
no pulmonary function tests done at this hospital, however,
he has been discharged in the past on five liters of home
oxygen.
3.  Peripheral vascular disease, status post right femoral
popliteal in [**2159**], with chronic venous stasis.
4.  Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.  The patient has
large insulin requirement.
5.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
6.  History of transient ischemic attack.
7.  History of Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
8.  History of nonsustained supraventricular tachycardia.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin with rash.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Lasix 60 mg p.o. twice a day.
2.  Lisinopril 3 mg p.o. once daily.
3.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. twice a day.
4.  Glipizide 5 mg p.o. four times a day.
5.  Combivent, Salmeterol, Flovent.
6.  Oxygen five liters.
Note: Compliance with these medications is unknown,


SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with various relatives at
different times.  He does not have his own apartment.  He
travels along with his wife who as mentioned before is
schizophrenic and suffers from paranoid delusions, however,
she is reporting that she is the [**Hospital 228**] health care proxy
and the patient confirms this.  However, they have no
documentation of this.  The patient denies alcohol or
intravenous drug abuse. Review of previous admission reveals
numerous hospitalizations during which patient refused various
recommended therapies and then left AMA.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, temperature is 97.6,
blood pressure 133/55, heart rate 83, respiratory rate 20
with oxygen saturation 93% on six liters.  Generally, the
patient was in mild distress.  Extraocular movements were
intact.  The patient had no scleral icterus. Cardiovascular -
Distant heart sounds, regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs.
Pulmonary - He had diffuse breath sounds with occasional
wheezes and sporadic crackles at the bases, symmetric
expansion.  The abdomen was soft, protuberant but nontender
with active bowel sounds.   The patient was guaiac negative
in the Emergency Department.  Extremities - The patient had
right lower extremity edema, greater than left, with
erythema, calor, and Charcot foot on the right.  The patient
had significant 4+ pitting edema on the right lower extremity
where deep vein thrombosis had been noted on ultrasound.  The
patient also had chronic venous stasis changes on the left
lower extremity with 2+ pitting edema.

LABORATORY DATA:   On admission, white blood cell count was
13.2, hematocrit 35.8, platelet count 404,000, 83%
neutrophils, 0% bands, 10% lymphocytes.  INR 1.4.  Sodium
135, potassium 5.5, chloride 101, bicarbonate 24, blood urea
nitrogen 46, creatinine 1.3, glucose 354.  Arterial blood
gases was 7.31, 54, 55.

Chest x-ray showed increased cardiac silhouette, no
opacities, no effusions, no active infiltrate.  Ultrasound of
right lower extremity showed deep vein thrombosis in the
common femoral vein.  CTA showed likely left upper lobe
subsegmental embolus and question right middle lobe tiny
embolus, no large pulmonary emboli, right basilar
atelectasis.

Electrocardiogram was sinus rhythm at 84 beats per minute,
normal axis, intraventricular conduction delay, no acute ST
changes, poor R wave progression consistent with old
electrocardiogram.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Pulmonary embolus, deep vein thrombosis - The patient was
heparinized throughout his hospitalization.  The patient and
his wife refused Coumadin treatment out of concern for
bleeding.  The patient refused to be transitioned on the
Coumadin because it required taking Coumadin and Heparin at
the same time.  The patient also refused discontinuing
Heparin and starting Coumadin because of concerns of
bleeding.  It was also thought by the medical team that due
to the patient's poor social condition and poor compliance in
the past that going home with Coumadin may be quite unsafe
despite the very high risk of mortality without
anticoagulation for deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary
embolus in this setting.  Ultimately, however, despite
medical team's advice and persistent attempts to convince the
patient otherwise, the patient refused to take Coumadin at
home.  However, the patient was heparinized throughout his
hospitalization here.  The patient also refused IVC filter
placement which was offered as an alternative to Coumadin
therapy even though it was considered suboptimal to
anticoagulation.  The patient and his wife felt that he would
be at high risk for complications of this procedure despite
assurances to the contrary.  The patient persistently refused
medical interventions by the medical team and was evaluated
by the psychiatry team and deemed to be competent to make his
medical decisions and competent to refuse various medical
interventions that were offered to him.  Therefore, the
patient was discharged on Aspirin as the only form of
anticoagulation.  Again, it should be reiterated the patient
refused Coumadin therapy at home despite his full
understanding that the one year mortality for untreated
pulmonary embolism is in excess of 50%.

2.  Diabetic foot - The patient was seen by podiatry and the
vascular surgery team who felt that the patient was suffering
from acute cellulitis and diabetic foot.  The patient had
plain films that revealed no signs of chronic osteomyelitis.
The patient was treated with intravenous Vancomycin,
Levofloxacin and Flagyl for the entirety of his
hospitalization which was a two week course.  The patient
responded well clinically with significant improvement in
edema, swelling, erythema and pain in the right lower
extremity.  The patient did have persistent right greater
than left lower extremity edema that was thought to be a
result of the known lower extremity deep vein thrombosis.
The patient had one blood culture out of four bottles
positive for Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus at
admission and therefore had been treated for two weeks with
intravenous Vancomycin for Methicillin resistant
Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia that was thought to be
related to his diabetic foot.  It is also possible that this
positive blood culture was a contaminant, however, he was
treated with a two week course for bacteremia nev