Admission Date: [**2183-11-5**]        Discharge Date: [**2184-1-12**]

Date of Birth:  [**2131-8-16**]        Sex:  M

Service:  LIVER TRANSPLANT SURGERY


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  End stage liver disease, encephalopathy.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 52 year-old male with HCV
cirrhosis, HIV, alcohol use, presenting with increased
confusion and change in mental status. Patient had increasing
confusion since [**2183-11-23**] with symptoms of fatigue
and decreased energy. He had decreased function, was not
performing activities of daily living well and had decreased
appetite. Patient saw his primary care physician 1 week prior
to admission. His ammonia level was checked as well as a
chest x-ray. At that time the patient denied any fever,
chills, urinary symptoms or abdominal pain. He did have a
cough for approximately 1 week and was compliant with taking
his lactulose 4x a day. Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 497**] saw the patient in the
liver clinic on the day of admission. At that time the
patient was combative and agitated. He was transferred to the
emergency department and admitted to the Intensive Care Unit
for observation. In the emergency department an abdominal
ultrasound was performed which was a suboptimal study
secondary to agitation and movement. A small amount of fluid
anterior to the liver was noted. Blood and urine cultures
were sent off and patient was given lactulose with rifaximin.
He was also given a dose of ceftriaxone and some Haldol. On
admission patient was confused but cooperative.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  HCV cirrhosis. He was diagnosed 15
years prior to admission and was never treated for this.
Questionable history of diabetes. Past hospitalizations for
encephalopathy. History of IV drug abuse. HIV diagnosed 14
years prior to admission on HAART therapy, in the past 5 to 6
year period off medications, recently restarted. Diabetes on
insulin. Polysubstance abuse. Low back pain. Hypertension.
Upper gastrointestinal bleed approximately a year ago.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with wife and 13 year-old son. Former
alcohol counselor. IV drug abuse but quit 20 years prior to
admission. Recent cocaine injection use approximately 4 to 5
months ago. Prior heavy alcohol use but none x 20 years ago.
Smoked 2 packs per 20 years and quit approximately 13 years
prior to admission. Originally from [**Male First Name (un) 1056**]. Currently
not working.

FAMILY HISTORY:  No liver disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.8, heart rate 82, blood
pressure blood pressure 139/99, respiratory rate 13, O2
saturation 96% on room air. Patient was pleasant in mild
distress and agitation. Alert and oriented to the date. Head,
eyes, ears, nose and throat: Pupils equal, round and reactive
to light, scleral icteric, mucous membranes moist. Facial and
cheek wasting. Neck: No jugular venous distension, no LAD.
Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally, slight bibasilar
crackles. Heart: Regular rate and rhythm, tachycardia, S1,
S2, no murmurs, regurgitation, gallop. Abdomen: Positive
distention but soft, nontender, no rebound, no guarding, no
flank dullness bilaterally. Liver edge not palpated.
Neurologic: Positive asterixis. Skin: Jaundice, mild
erythematous areas over anterior chest, no spider angiomas
and palmar erythema. Rectal: Guaiac negative as per emergency
department.

Electrocardiogram on admission was normal sinus rhythm with a
left axis, no change from prior electrocardiogram. Chest x-
ray demonstrated minimal bibasilar atelectasis, no
infiltrates. Abdominal ultrasound: Hepatopetal flow through
the main portal vein. White count on admission 18.1,
hematocrit 35.7, creatinine 0.9, BUN 11, potassium 4.9,
lactate 2.3. mono 86.

BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted under the
medical service. He was given lactulose and rifaximin.
Hepatology was consulted and followed along throughout this
course. He had a low sodium of 117. This was felt to be
secondary to volume depletion. IV fluids were restricted. He
underwent a diagnostic paracentesis on [**2183-11-3**]. He
underwent liver transplant. The surgeon was Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
assisted by Dr. [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initial (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] and Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name (STitle) **].
Estimated blood loss was 6 liters. Please see operative
report for further details. Postoperatively patient was
maintained in the Surgical Intensive Care Unit. Liver
function tests trended down. Baseline AST was 2,081. ALT
1723, alkaline phosphatase 67 with a total bilirubin of 2.6.
This trended down on postoperative day 3 to AST of 448, ALT
1120, alkaline phosphatase 99, total bilirubin of 1.3. Duplex
of the liver demonstrated patent portal vein and hepatic
arteries. Postoperatively he was moving extremities and
tracking with eyes. He was doing well. Liver function tests
started to climb. He suffered an acute severe rejection of
the liver transplant. He was relisted and received on
[**11-15**] and ABO incompatible liver transplant. He
underwent a second liver transplant on [**2183-11-17**]. The
surgeon was Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]. Indication was for hyperacute
severe cellular rejection of first liver transplant. Biopsy
of the explant demonstrated severe rejection. He had been
treated with OKT3 plasmapheresis but steroids but despite
those he continued to have allograft failure with fresh
frozen plasma and cryo requirements. On [**11-16**] he was
taken t the operating room for a second liver transplant. He
received induction of immunosuppression again
intraoperatively. Postoperatively he received Solu-Medrol
with taper CellCept 1 gram b.i.d. Anti-A titers were followed
and he received plasmapheresis, approximately 8
plasmapheresis treatments on alternating days. He received
IVIG as well as OKT3 for a total of 8 treatments. Prograf was
started on postoperative day 3 at 2 mg p.o. b.i.d. Prograf
levels ranged between 4 to 10.7. Prograf was gradually
increased to 7 mg b.i.d. Anti-A titers continued to 1 to 4.
Absolute CD3 was 0. Vital signs were stable until
postoperative day 3 when he spiked a temperature to 102.
Blood and urine cultures were done. He was started on IV
antibiotics, linezolid and meropenem. Blood and urine
cultures were subsequently negative. Sputum culture
demonstrated greater than 25 PMNs and greater than 10
epithelial cells. Gram stain indicated extensive
contamination with upper respiratory secretions. Yeast was
demonstrated. Patient underwent a bronchoscopy. This
demonstrated Klebsiella that was pansensitive. He received
linezolid and meropenem for a total of 14 days. On
postoperative day 8 on [**11-23**] sputum cultures
demonstrated gram negative rods and staph aureus coag
positive moderate growth. An HIV viral load at this time was
done and demonstrated 626 copies. White count ranged between
12.5 and 13.7. Hematocrit was fairly stable at 26 to 30. He
did have 2 [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 1661**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1662**] drain as well a nasogastric tube.
Liver function tests trended down nicely to as AST of 20, ALT
51, alkaline phosphatase 115, total bilirubin of 0.9 and
amylase of 47. Throughout this hospital course he was
maintained on IV ganciclovir for CMV prophylaxis. The CMV
viral load was negative. He also received IV Lasix to diurese
the edema. Duplex ultrasound demonstrated the portal vein and
hepatic artery. Chest x-ray demonstrated left lower lobe
atelectasis.

Postoperative day 3 the patient was still fairly sleepy and
he underwent a head CT. Head CT demonstrated slight
progression of prominence of petechial appearing hemorrhage
within the left and right frontal regions, consistent with
hemorrhagic products in the region of the prior infarct and
continued sinus opacification in the setting of intubation.
Head MRI was done that demonstrated no evidence of superior
saggital sinus thrombosis. Bifrontal brain infarction near
the vertex with adjacent small foci of parenchymal hemorrhage
was noted. He was very sleepy. Neurology was consulted. An
EEG was recommended. EEG demonstrated evidence for basically
2 el