Admission Date:  [**2135-6-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2135-7-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2073-3-2**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medical Intensive Care Unit Green Team

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 62-year-old man
with an extensive history of alcohol abuse, smoking, and
depression, who presented on [**2135-6-19**] to an outside
hospital complaining of one week of increased jaundice and
lethargy.  At the outside hospital, the patient was found to
have bilirubin of 20.  Hospitalization at the outside
hospital was significant for:  1.  He was started on
Lactulose for hepatic encephalopathy.  2.  Bilirubin
increased from the 20s to the 30s.  3.  Ultrasound of the
abdomen showed some ascites but no portal vein or biliary
abnormalities; paracentesis was negative for spontaneous
bacterial peritonitis.  4.  The patient's BUN and creatinine
rose when the patient was oliguric, consistent with acute
renal failure.  5.  The patient was given total parenteral
nutrition via a peripheral line.  6.  He is status post fall
on [**2135-6-21**] which required stitches to the forehead.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] on [**2135-6-30**] for management of acute renal and
hepatic failure.

The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course on the regular medicine floor
was significant for:  1.  Further increase in creatinine to
greater than 4 with urine output of less than 200 cc per
eight hours.  2.  Further increase in bilirubin to greater
than 40.  3.  Increase in liver function tests and alkaline
phosphatase.  4.  Metabolic acidosis with compensatory
respiratory alkalosis with anion gap.  5.  Abdominal
ultrasound repeat again showed no biliary or portal vein
abnormalities.  6.  Esophagogastroduodenoscopy on the day of
transfer to the Medical Intensive Care Unit found varices and
gastritis complicated by a varix rupture and bleed requiring
injection.  Hemostasis was achieved, but blood pressure had
decreased to the 80s systolic.  7.  The patient was made
DNR/DNI by the family.

On [**2135-7-1**], the patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for a hepatic and renal end stage disease
and for his upper gastrointestinal bleed.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post cholecystectomy.
2.  Hyperlipidemia.
3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
4.  Depression.
5.  Alcoholic liver disease.
6.  Dysnutrition.
7.  History of alcoholism.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient reportedly drinks a half gallon
of vodka per day.  He lives with his wife and son.  [**Name (NI) **] spends
most of his time in his room drinking.  He has poor
nutritional intake.  He smokes two to three packs per day of
tobacco.

MEDICATIONS:  His medications on the Medicine Floor were
pentoxifylline 400 mg three times a day, propranolol 10 mg
three times a day, Sevelaner 800 mg three times a day,
Protonix 40 mg once a day, vitamin K 10 mg once a day,
Lactulose 30 mg three times a day, ipratropium nebulizer,
albuterol nebulizer, multivitamin, folate, thiamine,
trimethobenzamide 250 mg twice a day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were temperature 93.9
axillary, heart rate 74, blood pressure 102/54, oxygen
saturation 96 percent on two liters.  In general, he was
somnolent, jaundiced.  HEENT:  Scleral icterus, extraocular
movements intact.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to
light and accommodation.  Mucous membranes were dry with
dried blood.  No jugular venous distention.  No
lymphadenopathy.  No bruits.

His skin was jaundiced; perirectal ulcer.  His heart had a
regular rate and rhythm, S1, S2 normal, no murmurs, rubs or
gallops.  Lungs were clear to auscultation anteriorly.
Genitourinary:  He had a Foley in place.
Neurological/psychiatric:  Somnolent but able to follow
commands.  No oriented to person, place, or time.

DIAGNOSTICS UPON TRANSFER:  Upon transfer from the medical
floor to the Medical Intensive Care Unit, white blood count
was 20.1, hematocrit 39.6, platelets 209, MCV 110, INR 1.4.

CHEMISTRIES:  Sodium 145, potassium 4.1, chloride 114,
bicarbonate 12, BUN 105, creatinine 4.7, calcium 8.8,
phosphate 8.1, magnesium 4.  Albumin 2.7, ammonia 80, lactate
1.8.  ALT 151, AST 293, alkaline phosphatase 533, total
bilirubin 42.7.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Hospital course prior to the transfer to
the Intensive Care Unit is outlined in the history of present
illness.  The patient was transferred to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit on [**2135-7-1**] directly from the
Gastrointestinal Suite after his upper gastrointestinal bleed
was stabilized.  The patient was continued on all of his
medications that he had been taking on the medicine floor.
On the evening of transfer to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit, the family decided against nasogastric tube placement.
The family also made the patient DNR/DNI.

The next morning, after transfer to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit, the patient's family decided to stop all
intravenous fluids and treatments and decided to allow
comfort measures only.  The patient was placed on morphine
sulfate sublingual 5-10 mg q.4 hours p.r.n., Ativan 0.5-2.0
mg sublingual q.4-6 hours p.r.n., Scopolamine patch,
olanzapine disintegrating tablet 5 mg p.o. q.d.

Shortly after the patient was put on comfort measures only,
the patient was pronounced dead at 11:20 a.m. on [**2135-7-2**].
The patient's pupils were dilated and nonreactive.  No heart
or lung sounds were heard on auscultation, and the patient
was not responsive to noxious stimuli.  The patient's family
was present throughout this morning.  The patient's family
deferred an autopsy.  The proper paperwork was filed with the
admitting office.






                            [**Doctor Last Name **] [**Doctor Last Name **], M.D  [**MD Number(1) 5708**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 6906**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2136-7-3**]  20:45
T:  [**2135-7-10**]  12:26
JOB#:  [**Job Number 51311**]
