Admission Date:  [**2184-8-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2184-8-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2130-3-27**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 54 year old man
with a history of interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, UIP who
presents with fever and sudden shortness of breath.  The
patient has shortness of breath at baseline, requiring home
oxygen of two to four liters.  He is on chronic Prednisone
treatment, gamma interferon for his interstitial pulmonary
fibrosis.  Sudden shortness of breath is thought to be
decompensation of his interstitial pulmonary fibrosis that
has been waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**] in severity.  The patient was
started on Levaquin 500 mg daily to cover a missed pneumonia.
 A chest x-ray shows an old right lower lobe nodule, thought
to be rounded atelectasis.  The patient unlikely has
pulmonary embolus.  The patient was stabilized in the
Emergency Room with oxygen saturation of 97% on four liters
of oxygen.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Interstitial pulmonary fibrosis.
2.  T7 compression fracture. 3.  No cardiac history.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Prednisone 35 mg p.o.q.d., gamma
interferon 200 mcg q. Monday, Wednesday and Friday, Bactrim
500 mg i.v.t.i.d., Ambien 10 mg p.o.q.h.s.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination, the patient
had a temperature of 97.9, heart rate 74, respiratory rate
20, blood pressure 100/70 and oxygen saturation 97% on four
liters oxygen.  The patient had bilateral dry crackles
two-thirds up the base.  The patient was alert and oriented
times three.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission white blood cell count was 5.9,
hematocrit 33.5, platelet count 219,000, electrolytes within
normal limits, CK 43 and troponin-I less than 0.3.  Blood
cultures were also negative.  Chest x-ray showed right lower
lobe opacity consistent with a pneumonia superimposed upon a
chronic interstitial fibrosis, fullness in the right hilar
region






                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3795**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 1020**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2184-8-25**]  17:00
T:  [**2184-9-1**]  18:56
JOB#:  [**Job Number 28270**]
