Admission Date:  [**2196-10-7**]       Discharge Date: [**2196-10-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2134-2-11**]       Sex:  M

Service:

This is a 62-year-old male who presented with a history of
chest pain who came for cardiac catheterization.
Catheterization showed multi vessel disease and the patient
was taken to the Operating Room on [**2196-10-7**] where a coronary
artery bypass graft x2 was performed.  The patient did well
postoperatively and was transferred to the CSRU.  He was
fully weaned from his ventilator and was extubated.  He
required transfusions for a low hematocrit and for
hemodynamic stability.  The patient had an intra-aortic
balloon pump placed during cardiac catheterization which
postoperatively was removed on day 1 with no issues.  PT was
consulted for ambulation and he was slowly weaned from his
ventilator and extubated.  The patient had his chest tube
removed and his diet was slowly advanced.  Physical therapy
evaluated him throughout his IC course as well as on the
floor.  He did well.  His chest tube was removed and he was
transferred to the floor.  His Foley was also removed at that
time.  He did well and continued to ambulate on a regular
diet.  His pain was controlled.

On postoperative day #4, his JP drain was removed.  His wires
were removed and the patient was evaluated per PT.  He was
discharged home in stable condition with neurologic services.
The patient was instructed to follow up with is primary care
physician who is also a cardiologist in one to two weeks and
instructed to return to cardiothoracic surgery in two weeks
for follow up for staple removal.  The patient is discharged
home in stable condition.

The patient is discharged home on Percocet 1 to 2 tablets po
q4h, Colace 100 mg po bid, Synthroid 50 mcg po qd, inhalers 2
puffs q6h, albuterol, ipratropium, enteric coated aspirin 325
po qd, Lopressor 25 po bid, Lasix 20 mg po bid and Protonix
40 mg po qd.  The patient is discharged home in stable
condition.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 1112**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3113**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 7148**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2196-10-11**]  11:14
T:  [**2196-10-11**]  13:28
JOB#:  [**Job Number 29838**]
