Admission Date:  [**2137-2-11**]       Discharge Date:  [**2137-2-19**]


Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Worsening exertional dyspnea

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mrs. [**Known lastname 11270**] is an 88 year old
female who reports that she has had stable chest pain for
several years.  She stated that she did not believe it to be
related to exertion, and she felt it was related to stress.
It occurred approximately one time per month and was resolved
with one sublingual nitroglycerin tablet.  She stated that
her chest pain had not changed over recent days, however, she
did relate that she had been having worsening dyspnea with
exertion since [**Month (only) 216**].  She became short of breath after
walking briskly in her house, and also recently had been
getting dizzy which was a new finding within the last couple
of months.  She was also developing lower extremity edema
which had been new during the past year.  She normally sleeps
in a Craft-matic adjustable bed, and stated that she was much
more comfortable when the head of the bed was upright.  She
went to see her primary care physician with complaints of
shortness of breath that were slowing her down, and was
referred for an echocardiogram.  This echocardiogram was done
in [**2136-12-30**] and revealed an ejection fraction of
approximately 60%.  She was, however, found to have severe
aortic stenosis with an aortic valve area of 0.9 cm squared,
a peak velocity of 3.5 meters/second, and a maximum mean PG
of 47/24 mm of mercury.  She was therefore referred for
cardiac catheterization to further delineate her disease.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Diabetes mellitus; 2.
Hypertension; 3.  Hyperlipidemia; 4.  Transient ischemic
attacks times two; 5.  Hearing loss.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  1.  Bilateral hip replacement,
approximately three years ago; 2.  Appendectomy; 3.
Excisional cystocele; 4.  Excision of rectocele; 5.  Excision
of enterocele.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1.  Norvasc 5 mg q. PM, 2.5 mg q.
AM; 2.  Lescol 40 mg q. day; 3.  Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d.; 4.
A sliding scale of Novolin N b.i.d.; 5.  Regular insulin
sliding scale after each meal; 6.  Aspirin 81 mg q. day; 7.
Vitamin E q. day.

She had of note been taking Lasix up until three to four
weeks prior to admission.

ALLERGIES:  She states that she is allergic to the generic
form of Lopressor to which she becomes violently ill and
nauseated.  She is also allergic to shellfish and dye as well
as codeine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a widow who lives alone and still
works as a seamstress.  Her daughter is temporarily living
with her.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Mrs. [**Known lastname 11270**] was a
pleasant elderly woman in no acute distress.  She had evident
loss of hearing requiring use of a hearing aid.  Her blood
pressure was found to be 119/31 with a heartrate of 55
beats/minute in sinus rhythm.  Her lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Her heart showed a regular rate
and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 and loud IV/VI holosystolic
murmur.  Her neck was supple with no thyromegaly or
lymphadenopathy, with 2+ palpable carotid pulses and no
carotid bruits.  Her extremities were warm and well perfused
with minimal peripheral edema.  Her pedal pulses were 2+ and
palpable bilaterally.  Gross motor examination was intact, as
well as was the gross sensory examination other than her
hearing.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Cardiac
Catheterization Laboratory on [**2137-2-11**] where she was
found to have diffuse mild to moderate disease of the left
anterior descending as well as an aortic valvular diameter of
0.9 cm squared.  The decision was made at this time to refer
the patient for an aortic valve replacement due to her severe
degree of aortic stenosis.  The patient was subsequently
admitted to the Operating Room on [**2137-2-12**] where she
underwent an aortic valve replacement with a 19 mm
[**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] pericardial valve.  Please refer the
dictated operative note for full details of this procedure.
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred
to the Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit in normal sinus
rhythm with a rate at 82 beats/minute and on an insulin drip
for blood sugar control.  Once in the Cardiac Surgical
Intensive Care Unit, the patient proceeded to have some
lability in blood pressure, and required some titration of
Neo-Synephrine drip.  Her cardiac index at this time
decreased to 1.7 from previous number greater than 2, and she
required a pacing to a heartrate to maintain better cardiac
index and output.  Cardiac index at this time rose to 2.5.
She was subsequently weaned and extubated later on in the day
without incident with good blood gas post extubation.  On
postoperative day #1 she was maintaining a heartrate of 77 in
sinus rhythm with a good blood pressure of 147 systolic.  At
this time she continued to be on an insulin drip for control
of her blood sugars.  Incentive spirometry and pulmonary
toilet were encouraged and beta blockade and active diuresis
were begun.  Later on postoperative day #1 the patient had
been weaned from her insulin drip and was deemed stable and
ready for transfer to the regular floor.

Early on postoperative day #2, the patient went into rapid
atrial fibrillation with a heartrate in the 140s.  She was
asymptomatic at the time and maintained a good blood
pressure, 110/60.  She was administered a total of 50 mg of
intravenous Lopressor and her heartrate was brought down to
close to 100, however, she continued to be in atrial
fibrillation.  She was also at this time given 25 mg of oral
Lopressor and intravenous magnesium sulfate for electrolyte
repletion.  She continued to be asymptomatic during this
time.  She was also given a dose of 150 mg of intravenous
Amiodarone, and she subsequently converted back to sinus
rhythm late on postoperative day #2 with a heartrate of 66
beats/minute.  She at this time was also started on oral
doses of Amiodarone.  On postoperative day #3, she received
one unit of packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of 23,
and on postoperative day #4 she received an additional unit
of packed red blood cells for a hematocrit close to 25.  She
tolerated the transfusions well, displaying increased amounts
of energy.  Intravenous Lasix was used in conjunction with
these transfusions to ensure against a volume overload.
Physical therapy evaluation done on postoperative day #5
stated that the patient was doing quite well on her own, and
would be safe for discharge home without further physical
therapy needs.  During the following days, Lopressor was
slowly increased, and Norvasc was added to her blood pressure
and medication regimen in order to further better control her
blood pressure and heartrate.  She remained in normal sinus
rhythm throughout the remainder of her hospital stay, and on
postoperative day #7 or [**2137-2-19**] she was deemed
stable and ready for discharge home.  It was, however, felt
that she would benefit from some services from a Visiting
Nurses Association in order that they could do a home safety
evaluation from the standpoint of physical therapy and
perform cardiopulmonary and wound checks.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient's temperature
was 97.9 degrees F with a heartrate of 80 in sinus rhythm and
a blood pressure of 143/71.  Respiratory rate was 18 and a
room air oxygen saturation was of 92%.  She was in no acute
distress with a regular rate and rhythm and no murmurs, rubs
or gallops.  Her lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Her sternal incision was healing nicely and her
sternum was stable.  Her abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended, with no hepatosplenomegaly or other palpable
masses.  Her extremities were warm and well perfused with 1+
peripheral edema which remained.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Lopressor 37.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2.  Norvasc 5 mg p.o. q. day
3.  Lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. for seven days
4.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq p.o. b.i.d. times 7 days
5.  Atorvastatin 40 mg p.o. q. day
6.  Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q. day for 30 days
7.  NPH Insulin 20 units q. AM and 30 units q.