Admission Date:  [**2145-5-22**]     Discharge Date:  [**2145-6-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2069-5-23**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Medicine/[**Doctor Last Name 11541**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 76-year-old female
with a history of coronary artery disease status post
coronary artery bypass grafting and mitral valve replacement
with a porcine valve, atrial fibrillation, history of rapid
ventricular response, diabetes mellitus, MRSA endocarditis,
left atrial thrombus originally admitted to [**Hospital1 346**] on [**2145-5-22**] complaining of
headache, nausea, vomiting and increased INR originally 11.2
to 15.6 on day of admission after being on Coumadin for left
atrial thrombus and porcine mitral valve.  The patient had a
head CT which showed a large intraparenchymal hemorrhage in
the cerebellum with mass effect.  The patient was originally
admitted to the neurosurgical intensive care unit after she
had a posterior fossa craniotomy for resection of left
cerebellar hemorrhage and areas of necrotic cerebellum.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1. Neurology:  The patient was status post
cerebellar hemorrhage thought to be originally an embolic
event with hemorrhagic conversion due to elevated INR.  As
mentioned above the patient underwent posterior fossa
craniotomy for resection of the hemorrhage as well as for
resection of areas of necrotic cerebellum.  The patient did
well postoperatively and had a small amount of drainage from
her wound on postoperative day number three which was treated
with additional sutures.  No drains remained in place.  From
a neurological perspective, the patient had follow-up head CT
scans on [**5-24**] and [**5-26**] which showed no evidence of
hydrocephalus, no enlarging collection and no new infarct.
The patient's neurologic examination had been relatively
stable with the patient's inability to speak, but ability to
move all extremities and intermittently follow commands as
well as opening eyes to voice.

The patient was restarted on her anticoagulation when she was
transferred to the medical floor as her underlying etiology
of the stroke was thought to be embolic in nature, and given
her porcine mitral valve, it is important that she would be
anticoagulated to prevent further strokes even though the
risk of anticoagulation was also stroke.

The patient initially had some improvement in her
neurological examination, however it was intermittent in
nature.  The patient underwent extensive further testing with
repeat head CT that again showed no evidence of hydrocephalus
or new stroke on [**6-3**].  The patient also had an MRI and
MRA of the head to further evaluate for microthrombi.  The
study was somewhat limited secondary to staples causing
artifact, however there was no acute cortical infarct, with
normal ventricle size and configuration.  The patient did
have chronic microvascular ischemia and infarction that was
old.  There was good flow to most of the intracerebral to
cranial arteries.  The patient also underwent EEG and the
report is still pending at the time of this dictation.

2. Infectious disease:  The patient initially had positive
blood cultures on [**5-21**] which grew out two of two bottles
of MRSA.  Given that the patient had just completed a full
six-week course of IV vancomycin, two weeks of gentamicin,
and four-and-a-half weeks of Rifampin on prior admission for
MRSA endocarditis, it was thought that potential left atrial
thrombus was seated with bacteria which may have represented
the positive blood cultures.  Subsequent blood cultures
during the hospitalization did not grow MRSA.  The patient
was treated with vancomycin for presumed MRSA bacteremia and
continued to have a slightly elevated but stable white blood
cell count and remained afebrile.

The patient was also thought to have a pneumonia given her
large right pleural effusion status post intubation x 2 while
on the neurosurgical intensive care unit.  The patient was
treated with a [**8-19**] day course of Zosyn IV for this.

3. Pulmonary:  The patient initially had a clear chest x-ray
on admission however subsequently developed bilateral pleural
effusions, right greater than left.  The right pleural
effusion was tapped and about 1.4 liters of fluid were
removed which were transudative and thought to be secondary
to her overall volume overload and anasarca on this
admission.

The patient was intubated x 2 and subsequently remained
extubated after [**2145-5-27**].  Pulmonary consultation was
obtained and the patient had drainage of right pleural
effusion as mentioned above and in addition was diuresed with
some improvement in her bilateral pleural effusions, however
they did recur but appeared to remain relatively stable.

4. Cardiovascular:  The patient had a transesophageal
echocardiogram on [**2145-5-23**] that showed a 1.7 cm left
atrial thrombus, mild left ventricular hypertrophy, no masses
or vegetations on the aortic valve, 1+ aortic insufficiency,
mitral valve without vegetation, normal leaflet motion, 2+
tricuspid regurgitation.  The patient did have left atrial
spontaneous echo contrast which was increased, with size of
the left atrial thrombus stable.  The patient was initially
not anticoagulated given initial presentation with elevated
INR and stroke, however once she was medically stable she was
restarted on her anticoagulation with Coumadin only.
Ultimately she did become therapeutic on [**2145-6-8**] with
an INR of 2.2.

The patient has a history of atrial fibrillation and rapid
ventricular response.  Initially she was rate controlled on
Toprol 150 mg q.i.d. and verapamil 80 mg p.o. t.i.d. and was
maintained on telemetry.  She did have several episodes of
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia on her telemetry and
this was eventually discontinued after changing code status.
The patient did have several episodes of atrial fibrillation
with rapid ventricular response during her hospital course,
given difficulty with p.o. pain medications and absorption
issues as well as lack of response to IV Lopressor.

5. Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition:  The patient had
nasogastric tube in place and was continued on her tube
feeds.  She did have a low albumin however patient was unable
to be fully reevaluated by the speech and swallow service
given her overall lack of improvement in neurological status.

6. Acid base:  The patient did have acid base abnormalities
which included initial PCO2 of around 41 which increased to
50 and then 58.  The patient also had an elevated bicarbonate
and was thought to have a metabolic alkalosis with
respiratory acidosis that was not completely compensated.
This was partially due to her diuresis as well as perhaps
primary central component of decreased respiratory drive
secondary to her neurologic event.

The remainder of this hospital course will be dictated by Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **].





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 734**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 735**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 736**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 231**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2145-6-9**]  04:30
T:  [**2145-6-15**]  10:24
JOB#:  [**Job Number 11542**]
