Unit No: [**Unit Number 111442**]
Admission Date: [**2186-3-25**]
Discharge Date: [**2186-3-29**]
Date of Birth:  [**2120-3-10**]
Sex:
Service:


HISTORY:  The patient is a 66-year-old woman who is
transferred from an outside hospital for abdominal pain and
distention. Her history begins with several days of watery
diarrhea followed by the onset of midabdominal pain last
evening, which progressed to nausea but no emesis. The
patient states the pain is consistent, nonradiating, worse
with movement. She has had no fever and no chills, no
dysuria, no chest pain and no flatus. The pain was severe
enough to cause her to seek care in an outside emergency room
and she is now transferred to the [**Hospital3 **] at the request
of her family.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Is significant for atrial
fibrillation, hypertension, Crohn disease, history of urinary
tract infections, degenerative joint disease, COPD, aortic
regurgitation, small bowel obstructions in the past,
depression, MRSA line sepsis and lower extremity cellulitis.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Is significant for an ileal resection
for Crohn's in [**2171**], a gastric band for obesity in [**2182**], and
a right upper extremity skin graft and a total abdominal
hysterectomy.

ALLERGIES:  Are to tetracycline and Demerol.

MEDICATIONS:  Include Coumadin 7.5 mg daily, except for
Monday where she takes 10 mg, digoxin 250 mcg a day, Cartia
240 mg once a day, Prozac, Wellbutrin, Topamax 200 mg twice a
day, folic acid, Pentasa 750 mg 4 times a day, budesonide,
Lasix 40 mg every other day and potassium replacement.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On examination initially in the
emergency room, she had a temperature of 97.9, heart rate of
101, respiratory rate at 24, blood pressure of 151/48 and a
room air saturation of  98%. She was in obvious discomfort.
Her cardiac exam was irregularly irregular. Chest exam was
clear to auscultation and percussion bilaterally. Abdominal
exam was massively distended, diffusely tender with guarding.
Her rectal exam was heme-negative without masses and she had
no evidence of hernias on palpation of her inguinal canal or
right abdominal wall.

Workup in the emergency room ruled her out for myocardial
infarction.

LABORATORY DATA:  Her lactate level was 3.9. Blood gas was
within normal limits at 7.35/34/71/20/negative 5. Her white
blood cell count was 11.1 with a left shift and her
electrolytes were within normal limits except for her
potassium, which was low at 2.8. Her INR was 1.4. She had a
KUB which showed dilated loops of small bowel throughout. No
free air and no evidence of volvulus.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  While in the emergency room, the patient
began to pass copious light brown stool with significant
decrease in distention of her abdomen and decrease in pain.
Of note, her family has several members who are ill with
gastroenteritis. The patient's  gastric band prevents her
from vomiting and we were unable to pass a nasogastric tube
it. However, the nasogastric tube was put down into her
esophagus and did pull back bilious material.

She had a CT scan, which revealed that her entire GI tract
from stomach to her rectum was diffusely dilated and fluid-
filled. There was no focal obstruction or findings. This was
all consistent with gastroenteritis and the inability to
vomit secondary to her gastric band.

A rectal tube and a nasoesophageal tube were placed. She was
hydrated with intravenous fluids and given stress dose
steroids because she had been treated within the past year
for her Crohn's with steroids. She was also noted to have an
E. coli UTI, which was also treated with antibiotics.

The urinary tract infection was treated with levofloxacin 500
mg IV q.24 hours.

The patient was adequately higher hydrated and began to have
a reasonable urine output. Her nasoesophageal tube put out
over a liter per day of bilious fluid. The rectal tube output
was also good. She continued to deflate the distention in her
abdomen and it was completely nontender. Her C. diff cultures
were negative. Her condition continued to improve over serial
days of IV hydration and on hospital day #3, she started to
tolerate clear liquids without difficulty and was advanced to
a mechanical soft-solid diet, did well with this and was
discharged home on hospital day #4. The patient is discharged
home on all of her preoperative medications. She has been
instructed to go to the emergency room if she experiences any
of the symptoms that she had previously. She will be seen in
follow-up by her primary care physician.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Gastroenteritis and hypovolemia
secondary to diarrhea.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.



                        [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], MD

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 111443**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2186-6-20**] 18:11:15
T:  [**2186-6-25**] 05:36:43
Job#:  [**Job Number **]



