Admission Date:  [**2102-3-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2102-4-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2079-10-7**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Trauma Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 22-year-old
male who was repairing his truck (lying underneath the
truck), when the truck fell on him crushing his chest.  The
patient was awake initially and was able to use his cell
phone while underneath the truck, and the paramedics arrived.

Upon arrival, he was extricated from underneath the truck;
and while in transport, he had an episode of desaturation
with a decrease in blood pressure, for which he was
intubated.

He arrived at the Emergency Department intubated and sedated.
His initial examination revealed bilateral pneumothoraces for
which bilateral chest tubes were placed.  His secondary
survey revealed mild abdominal tenderness, but no other gross
abnormalities.  The patient had been alert and oriented times
three upon arrival by the paramedics, but this quickly
deteriorated along the ambulance route.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:   None.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  None.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  A truck driver from [**State 4260**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Initial physical
examination with a blood pressure of 104/71, heart rate
of 125, respirations intubated at 24, oxygen saturation of
96%.  Sedated an intubated.  Pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Mucous membranes were moist.
Endotracheal tube in place and G-tube in place.  Mild facial
edema.  Neck revealed cervical collar in place, mild crepitus
over the right neck.  Chest revealed bilateral chest tubes in
place, decreased aeration bilaterally with coarse breath
sounds.  Cardiovascular was tachycardic, a regular rhythm.
First heart sound and second heart sound were normal.  No
murmurs.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  No
bowel sounds.  Pelvis was stable.  Extremities revealed right
upper extremity abrasions, 2+ pulses distally in the
bilateral upper and lower extremities. Capillary refill of
less than two seconds.  No edema.  No gross deformities.
Back revealed no stepoff.  Rectal examination was
heme-negative.  No gross blood.  Rectal tone was intact.

EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE:  The patient quickly had two
chest tubes placed along with a right femoral trauma line.
The patient was apparently neurologically intact at the scene
and had no focal neurologic deficits.  The patient was moving
both of his legs and arms.  Therefore, a head injury or
spinal cord injury was felt unlikely.  The patient's
condition stabilized after intravenous fluids, and he was
felt stable for a CAT scan.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A CAT scan of his head revealed mild
effacement of the gyri consistent with mild edema.

A CAT scan of his chest with intravenous contrast showed no
injury to the great vessels.  There was bilateral
pneumothoraces, right greater than left.  There were
bilateral severe pulmonary contusions and bilateral
pneumatoceles.  There was no evidence of pericardial fluid or
cardiac damage.  There was right rib fractures posteriorly.

A CT scan of the abdomen revealed a small 3-cm X 2-cm
posterior liver laceration with no free fluid in the abdomen.
This laceration was self-contained.  There was no apparent
injury to the spleen, kidneys, or bladder.

A CT of the pelvis revealed a nondisplaced femoral fracture.
CAT scan also revealed a right clavicle fracture.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was transferred to the
Surgical Intensive Care Unit for further management.

The patient was admitted to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit
for close monitoring.  His respiratory status was difficult
initially upon his arrival due to his bilateral severe
pulmonary contusions.  He was placed on assist-control
ventilation; however, his oxygen saturations and PAO2 were
inadequate, and he was switched to pressure-control
ventilation as he progressed to an acute respiratory distress
syndrome picture.  This slightly improved his oxygenation,
and his PO2 increased to approximately 70s to 80s.

He was sedated with Ativan and morphine and paralyzed during
this process.  He was placed on Kefzol and Protonix
prophylaxis and received frequency nebulizer treatments.  He
was transfused with fresh frozen plasma to correct a mild
coagulopathy and was transfused with 2 units of packed red
blood cells for a slight hematocrit drop to 27 initially with
an adequate response to a hematocrit of 36 afterwards.

The patient had a Swan-Ganz catheter placed to monitor
hemodynamic status, and he had a high central venous
pressures and pulmonary arterial pressures; indicating that
the patient was not hypovolemic.  Therefore, fluids were
minimized to minimize excess of fluids in his lungs.

The patient had an echocardiogram to evaluate for evidence of
blunt myocardial injury, gross wall motion abnormalities, or
valvular defects.  The echocardiogram showed normal overall
wall motion and ejection fraction, and no pericardial
effusion.

The patient's pulmonary status was such that he was requiring
increasing levels of positive end-expiratory pressure and
100% FIO2 to maintain adequate oxygenation while his PCO2
were rising as well; and this was felt to be secondary to a
very severe air dehiscent pulmonary contusions.  He was
briefly placed on high-frequency oscillatory ventilation with
significant improvement in his oxygenation and ventilation,
allowing a decrease in his FIO2.  The patient was able to
return to pressure-control ventilation soon thereafter and
began a slow wean from the ventilator.

Plain films of the patient's bilateral upper extremities
revealed no fractures, and a repeat chest x-ray showed no
change in his prior x-rays of bilateral long whiteout, but no
gross pneumothorax with chest tube in good position.

Throughout this time the patient began spiking temperatures,
and cultures were drawn peripherally and from urine and
sputum as well as bronchoscopy.  The sputum cultures began
growing out hemophilus influenza for which the patient was
started on levofloxacin with slight defervescence of his
fever.  The patient also began to experience decreasing
platelets at this time.  He was switched from subcutaneous
heparin to Hirudin for possible heparin-induced
thrombocytopenia, and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia
antibodies were sent.

The patient began a slow pulmonary ventilator wean; at this
point down from his initial high FIO2 and positive
end-expiratory pressures.  He was continued on sedation and
paralysis with Ativan, morphine, and cisatracurium.

He began having tube feeds through a Dobbhoff feeding tube
and was continued on gastrointestinal prophylaxis with
Protonix, nebulizers, and Venodyne boots.

While having high PCO2  of approximately 76, there was
concern for elevated intracranial pressure, and Neurosurgery
was consulted.  They placed a intracranial pressure monitor.
This initially showed an intracranial pressure of 27.  Once
his PCO2 came down to the low 50s, the intracranial pressure
dropped to a normal level of 12, and the intracranial
pressure monitor was discontinued.  The cerebral perfusion
pressure throughout was maintained greater than 60.

The patient revealed intermittent boluses of albumin for an
elevated heart rate and decreased urine output despite high
right-sided filling pressures with good response.  The
patient also had a thoracic, lumbar, and cervical spinal
x-rays which revealed no fractures.

By hospital day seven, the patient began to stabilize and his
intracranial pressure monitor had been discontinued and
high-frequency oscillatory ventilation had been discontinued.
He was responding to antibiotic treatment for the hemophilus
influenza in his sputum.  He began to receive Lasix diuresis
for his overall body fluid overload.

The patient's sedation was continued, but his paralysis was
discontinued.  At this time, the patient began having a
sputum that grew gram-positive cocci which was eventually
identified as methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus,
for which he was started on oxacillin in addition to the
levofloxacin that he was on for his hemophilus influenza.
Aft