Admission Date:  [**2129-6-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2129-6-25**]


Service:  [**Hospital1 212**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 88-year-old female with
coronary artery disease and left bundle branch block
presented with acute onset of dyspnea for 18 hours prior.
She was in her usual state of health, fairly sedentary and
able to ambulate about one block before developing chest
tightness and claudication, until the night before admission
when she developed progressive dyspnea at rest and was unable
to sleep.  She had a cough, plus-minus fevers, and had to sit
upright to breath.  She has a baseline four-pillow orthopnea.
She also reported chest tightness on the day of admission
similar to anginal pain in the past.  The chest pain peaked
at noon on the day of admission.  She called the emergency
medical technicians and presented to the Emergency
Department.  There she was tachypneic with 30-40 respiratory
rate, oxygen saturation 100% on 4 liters face mask, and
tachycardiac to 120.  Electrocardiogram showed left bundle
branch block.  She was treated with aspirin, Lasix, Heparin,
and intravenous Nitroglycerin with mild improvement in her
symptoms.  At 10:30 p.m. on the day of admission, she
developed acute decompensation with a respiratory rate of
40-50 and poor air movement.  Her saturations remained at
100%.  She was placed on BIPAP 10/5 with eventual respiratory
rate decrease to 30 after 10 minutes.  She was then given
Albuterol nebulizers and oxygen via face mask with continued
improvement and was then admitted to the CCU for further
management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The past medical history revealed
coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass
graft in [**2121**].  Persantine Thallium study in [**10/2128**] was
normal.  The patient has had left bundle branch block since
[**2124**].  There is a history of hypertension, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, positive PPD, pleural plaques
on chest x-ray in [**2125**], status post cholecystectomy, history
of pulmonary embolism, peripheral vascular disease with
claudication, chronic renal insufficiency with baseline of
[**12-13**].3, diabetes mellitus, and supraventricular tachycardia.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Flovent, aspirin, Baycol,
Prilosec, Coumadin 3.5 mg q. day, Verapamil 80 mg t.i.d.,
Digoxin 0.125 mg q.o.d., iron, Atrovent, Lisinopril 40 mg q.
day, Imdur 30 mg q. day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is [**Location 11543**] and speaks
Portuguese.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Blood pressure was 100/80, pulse 125
and regular, respiratory rate 30-40, O2 saturation 100% on 6
liters face mask.  In general, the patient was an elderly,
ill-appearing female, tachypneic.  HEENT examination revealed
normocephalic, atraumatic.  Sclerae were anicteric.  The
oropharynx was clear.  The neck was full, JVP at 12 cm.  The
chest revealed shallow breaths and wheezes, inspiratory much
greater than expiratory anteriorly.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed tachycardia.  No murmurs, gallops, or
rubs were appreciated.  The abdomen was soft and nontender.
Bowel sounds were present.  The extremities revealed 1+ edema
bilaterally halfway up to the knees.  Neurologically, the
patient was alert and oriented but lethargic.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count was 8.7, hematocrit
42, platelets 264,000.  Differential revealed 61 polys, 29
lymphocytes, 4 monocytes, 3 eosinophils.  Sodium was 142,
potassium 4.6, chloride 100, bicarbonate 27, BUN 16,
creatinine 1.3, glucose 195.  Digoxin level was 0.4.  PT was
18.8, PTT 27.9, INR 2.3, CK 51, troponin less than 0.05,
amylase 143, lipase 100.  Electrocardiogram revealed sinus
tachycardia at 125 beats per minute, left bundle branch
block, no significant changes from prior of [**2126-6-18**].  Chest
x-ray revealed cardiomegaly, slight upper zone
redistribution, and pleural thickening in the left mid lung
field.

ASSESSMENT:  This elderly female with coronary artery disease
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease presented with
acute dyspnea at rest.

HOSPITAL COURSE
Cardiovascular:  The patient was initially treated with
aspirin, Heparin, Nitroglycerin, and Digoxin, and her CKs
were cycled.  No beta blocker was given at that time because
of her underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Arterial blood gases were drawn to assess the pulmonary
status from the right femoral artery and she developed
hematoma at this site; however abdominal CT showed no
retroperitoneal bleed.  During her hospital stay, there was
concern for mesenteric ischemia and her Digoxin was stopped.
In addition, her hospital course was complicated by multiple
episodes of chest pain of sudden onset with elevations in her
blood pressure to around 200 systolic with her heart rate in
the 140s.  Her pain was relieved with sublingual
Nitroglycerin and on one occasion required morphine for
relief after sublinguals.  Throughout all her episodes of
chest pain, she had no EKG changes and her CKs remained flat.
During one of her episodes of chest pain, a pain MIBI was
performed and showed no signs of ischemic change.  Thus
cardiology concluded that her chest pain was not of cardiac
ischemic origin.  Early in her hospital course, she remained
persistently tachycardiac in the 130s and 140s.  She was
switched to Verapamil 120 mg q.i.d. and Isordil 80 mg t.i.d.
and eventually her baseline heart rate came down to the 70s
and 80s.  However she still had occasional chest pain with
the elevated blood pressure and heart rate.  There was a
question of whether her chest pain episodes were related to
meals; however no confirmation was obtained.

Pulmonary:  Her initial presentation was consistent with
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare and she was
started on Albuterol, Solu-Medrol, and oxygen as well as
Levaquin.  Her oxygen requirement was eventually weaned down
to her home baseline of 0.5 liters of oxygen per nasal
cannula and Prednisone was weaned during her hospital stay.
There was a question of whether her sinus tachycardia was
related to pulmonary embolism and D-dimer sent was negative.
However no VQ scan was performed because of her baseline
chest x-ray abnormalities.  A pulmonary angiogram was not
done secondary to her baseline chronic renal insufficiency.
In addition, she was already on Heparin therapy and thus we
would not have changed our management.

Renal:  The patient has a baseline chronic renal
insufficiency with a creatinine of 1.3 and thus all her
medications were renally dosed.  She was hydrated before and
after angiography.  There were no bumps in her creatinine
secondary to any dye loads.

Gastrointestinal:  According to her primary care physician,
[**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 8499**], she has had multiple admissions in the past
for sudden onset chest pain and epigastric pain with
shortness of breath.  She has also had intermittent
elevations in her amylase during these episodes which
eventually resolved in 12 to 48 hours.  During this
admission, she had no episode of nausea, vomiting, or
diarrhea.  She denied any postprandial pain, sitophobia, or
any weight loss.  However her primary care physician wanted
to pursue a GI evaluation for her previous pain.  An MRA that
was done at an outside hospital showed questionable
mesenteric stenosis and thus we proceeded to perform a
mesenteric angiogram while the patient was in-house.  This
showed no significant stenoses.  In addition, an MRCP was
also performed to evaluate for any pancreatic ductal
pathology and this showed ectatic pancreatic ducts with no
signs of obstruction.  She remained guaiac negative with no
elevations of amylase or lipase during this admission.  It
was recommended that she continue followup evaluation of her
symptoms as an outpatient.

Hematology:  The patient was on Coumadin as an outpatient
which was stopped as she was supratherapeutic.  She was
started on Heparin, however, will be discharged on Coumadin
and Lovenox subcutaneously until she is therapeutic.  Iron
studies showed a microcytic anemia with a low absolute
reticulocyte count and thus she was started on iron therapy.

Endocrine:  The patient was kept on NPH and regular in