Admission Date:  [**2171-7-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2171-7-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2120-6-20**]       Sex:  F

Service:
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 51-year-old
African American female with severe morbid obesity,
obstructive sleep apnea on BIPAP and bilateral pedal edema
who presents to the Emergency Department on the day of
admission for further evaluation of left breast tenderness
she initially presented to the [**Hospital1 2177**] surgical service for
evaluation in [**2171-4-26**].  At that time, the patient had an
ultrasound done which was negative for abscess.  She was
started on intravenous nafcillin with significant
improvement.  She was noted at that time to have significant
bilateral pedal edema which was felt to be dependent because
of intravenous fluids and sodium in the antibiotics.  She was
Augmentin, also started on atenolol.  The patient came to the
Emergency Department day of admission because she noted
increasing puckering of her left breast erythema and foul
smell covering the breast over the past two weeks.  She has
had a discharge from a wound in her back, but none from her
breast.  She has noted increased bilateral lower extremity
edema to the thighs over the last two weeks.  She has
occasional shortness of breath and has been having increasing
orthopnea.  She chronically uses two to three pillows and
denies increased paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  She has
obstructive sleep apnea and has been on BIPAP for the last
two years.  According to her daughter, the BIPAP machine has
not been functioning well over the last several weeks and she
feels that the patient has been somewhat more lethargic
because of that.  She has not had a cardiac echocardiogram
recently.  The patient denies any fevers, chills or cough.
Denies chest pain or palpitations.  She denies any previous
history of deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolus and
denies history of lung disease.

In the Emergency Department, she was slightly tachycardic to
103 to 112 initially.  Blood pressure was stable at 90 to 110
over 66 to 73.  She was breathing at 24.  On admission to the
Emergency Department, she was noted to be hypoxic at 73% on
room air which increased to 90% on 60% face mask.  Arterial
blood gas was checked on 40% Venti mask and was 7.27, 90 and
60.  She was given nebulizers and started on BIPAP.  Chest
x-ray showed a question of cardiac enlargement and congestive
heart failure.  The patient was given 20 of Lasix
intravenous, diuresed 1200 cc in the Emergency Department.
Also started on heparin empirically for question of pulmonary
embolism.  ............. showed on the left lower extremity
suboptimal study without evidence of deep venous thrombosis.
Heparin was discontinued, also given Ancef for cellulitis in
the Emergency Department.  Mental status and O2 saturations
improved on BIPAP in the Emergency Department.  Room air
still saturating at 84%.  She was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit for close observation for hypoxia and hypercapnia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Morbid obesity
2.  Status post incision and drainage of back wound in [**2171-4-26**]
3.  History of left breast cellulitis previously treated at
[**Hospital6 **]
4.  Obstructive sleep apnea on BIPAP at night
5.  Osteoarthritis of knee

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Status post cesarean section

MEDICATION:
1.  Aspirin 325 mg po qd

ALLERGIES:  NOVOCAINE, REACTION IS NOT CLEAR

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Tobacco one pack per day x35 years, no
alcohol.  The patient is unemployed, lives in [**Location 16174**] with
her children.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother with hypertension and question of
heart disease.  No family history of cancer or diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAM:
GENERAL:  She is a morbidly obese African American female who
is alert and oriented x3 in no apparent distress.
VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 98.6??????, heart rate 84 to 90, blood
pressure 119/70, respiratory rate 23, O2 saturation 91% on 3
liters.
HEAD, EARS, EYES, NOSE AND THROAT:  Pupils equal, round and
reactive to light.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  Oral
mucosa dry.  Tongue coated, no oral lesions, positive
macrognathia was noted.
NECK:  Short, supple, no lymphadenopathy appreciable, jugular
venous distention.
CHEST:  Poor inspiratory effort transmitted, upper
respiratory sound, no crackles, rales, rhonchi or wheezing.
HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2, no
murmurs, rubs or gallops, no appreciated right sided S3.
BREASTS:  Large area of firm peau d'orange extending to back
with slight erythema and increased warmth.  No drainage, no
nipple discharge.
ABDOMEN:  Severely obese, soft, nontender, nondistended,
positive bowel sounds.  Indurated pannus was noted across
left side.
EXTREMITIES:  Bilateral 2+ lower edema to the sides
bilaterally and no palpable pulses bilaterally.  No cyanosis,
clubbing or lesions appreciated.
NEUROLOGIC:  Nonfocal neurologic exam.

ADMISSION LABORATORIES:  White blood cell count 4.5,
hematocrit 50.9, hemoglobin 14.7, platelets 192.  Sodium 140,
potassium 3.6, chloride 96, bicarbonate 32, BUN 6, creatinine
0.5, glucose 106.  Urinalysis:  Specific gravity 1.031.
Urine was [**Location (un) 2452**], positive nitrites, no glucose.  Trace
ketones, moderate bilirubin, 30 red blood cells, 14 white
blood cells, occasional bacteria.  Urine culture was
negative.  Arterial blood gases on the [**5-16**] on 40%
face mask 7.27, 90 and 60.  Also, later that day, 7.29, 81
and 60.  On [**7-17**], first arterial blood gas 7.24, 102
and 96.  Second arterial blood gas 7.30, 83, 37 on room air.
There was a question of this arterial blood gas being a
venous blood gas.

IMAGING:  Chest x-ray on the 21st showed congestive heart
failure, ill defined density of the left base which may
represent early pneumonia.  Portable on [**7-17**] following
Lasix showed a limited radiograph due to position and body
habitus with apparent elevation of the left hemidiaphragm,
the left upper extremity ultrasound limited bilateral lower
extremity duplex venous exam without evidence of deep venous
thrombosis.  Electrocardiogram showed tachycardia at 103,
normal intervals, R-axis deviation, diffuse low voltage, S in
1, Q in 3, no T-wave inversion in 3, Q in AVF, Q-wave
flattening in AVL.  There was a question of precordial lead
reversal of V2 and V3 with V4 and V5.  No acute ischemic ST-T
wave changes were noted.  No right atrial enlargement, no
evidence of right ventricular hypertrophy.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was transferred from the
Emergency Department to the MICU because of hypoxia and
hypercapnia.  While in the MICU, she was maintained on oxygen
during the day, either nasal cannula or face mask.  She was
placed on BIPAP overnight.  On [**7-19**], she refused
BIPAP.  Her oxygen saturations were in the high 80s to low
90s while in the MICU.  This likely represents her baseline.
Blood gases were stable with PCO2s ranging in the 70s to
100s.  The patient tolerated this well and denied symptoms of
shortness of breath or chest pain.  VQ scan was done to
address the question of pulmonary embolus.  It was also
suboptimal.  It showed no evidence of perfusion defects.  The
patient was treated for three days with ciprofloxacin for
urinary tract infection in addition to her Ancef for the
breast cellulitis.

Left breast ultrasound demonstrated soft tissue edema along
the left lateral chest wall, fluid tracking along the fascial
planes.  Several small fluid pockets, the largest of which
was 2.8 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm.  Echocardiogram showed a dilated
right ventricle, hypokinetic right ventricular free wall,
left ventricular wall thickness cavity and abnormal septal
wall motion position consistent with right ventricular
pressure volume overload, tricuspid and mitral regurgitation
which could not be quantitated.  Pulmonary artery pressure
could not be determined.

The patient remained stable while in the Intensive Care Unit.
Her blood gases continued to remain with PCO2s in the 70s to
100s.  Her O2 saturations were high 80s to low 90s.  Her
cardiovascular function was not an active issue during this
admission.  The patient remained afebrile on Ancef and was
switched to Keflex on [**2171-7-24**].  The patient was
transferred t