Admission Date:  [**2129-8-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2129-8-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2076-1-1**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Medicine, [**Location (un) **] Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 53-year-old
female with steroid-dependent asthma admitted to Medical
Intensive Care Unit on [**8-10**] directly from the Emergency
Department after presenting with rhinorrhea, and cough, and
severe hypoxia to low 70% on room air.  Chest CT in the
Emergency Department showed multilobar infiltrates.  CT
angiogram was negative for pulmonary embolus.  The patient
was sent to the Medical Intensive Care Unit and treated with
Levaquin for community-acquired pneumonia, Solu-Medrol for
severe reactive airway disease, and albuterol and Atrovent
nebulizers.  The patient was transferred to the medical floor
on [**8-15**], but persistent hypoxemia with a worsened
arterial blood gas forced the patient to be transferred back
to Medical Intensive Care Unit on 100% nonrebreather.  The
patient was again treated with intravenous Solu-Medrol,
nebulizers, and continued on Levaquin.  The patient did not
require intubation at any point during this hospital period;
however, was maintained on oxygen by face mask for more or
less the first week and a half of this admission and did not
seem to be improving significantly despite treatment.  A
chest CT was repeated on [**8-17**] which showed a total left
lower lobe collapse and partial right lower lobe collapse
likely secondary to mucous plugging.  The patient under
bronchoscopy on [**8-21**] which revealed significant diffuse
mucous plugging and partial left lower lobe collapse.  The
patient improved significant after bronchoscopy and removal
of significant mucous plugs with increased aeration of lower
lobes on repeat chest x-ray and improved oxygenation on
decreased face mask oxygen.  The patient was placed on
humidified oxygen via nasal cannula and transferred to the
medical floor on [**2129-8-23**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Severe reactive airway disease first noted in [**2118**] at the
age of 43.
2.  Atopic dermatitis.
3.  Chronic idiopathic urticaria.
4.  Samter's triad.
5.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
6.  Obstructive sleep apnea.
7.  Osteoarthritis.
8.  Status post sinus surgery in [**2122**].
9.  Osteopenia.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to NONSTEROIDAL
ANTIINFLAMMATORY DRUGS, ASPIRIN producing anaphylactic
response; also allergic to BIAXIN, PENICILLIN, and DONNATAL.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco.  No alcohol.  No intravenous
drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Daughter with reactive airway disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 97.6,
pulse 64 to 90, blood pressure 122/60, respirations 18,
oxygenation 96% on 4 liters humidfied oxygen via nasal
cannula.  General appearance revealed Cushingoid female in no
acute distress, talking in full sentences with nasal cannula
oxygen.  HEENT revealed pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light.  Tongue and mucous membranes with whitish
plaque not consistent with thrush.  Mucous membranes were
moist.  Sclerae were anicteric.  Neck was obese with midline
trachea.  No carotid bruits.  Cardiovascular had a regular
rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2.  No murmurs.
Pulmonary revealed chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally with decreased breath sounds at the right base.
No wheezes, crackles or rhonchi.  Abdomen was obese, soft,
nontender, and nondistended, positive bowel sounds.  No
striae.  Extremities revealed no clubbing, cyanosis or edema,
2+ distal pulses.  Neurologically, alert and oriented times
three; otherwise nonfocal.  Skin revealed multiple ecchymoses
at intravenous and injection sites, positive "buffalo hump."

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No dysuria.  No nausea, vomiting, or
diarrhea.  No chest pain or palpitations, intermittent
dyspnea on exertion.  Good appetite with excellent p.o.
intake.  No fevers or chills.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:   White blood cell count 12.8,
with 91% neutrophils, no bands, and 11% eosinophils;
hematocrit 39.4, with MCV of 98, platelets 185.  Sodium 137,
potassium 3.8, chloride 99, bicarbonate 28, BUN 18,
creatinine 0.6, glucose 89.  Microbiology laboratories
revealed Legionella antigen negative.  Sputum culture on
[**8-19**] with no excessive growth, likely oropharyngeal
contamination.  Urine culture with multiple organisms
consistent with skin contamination.  Blood cultures were
negative.  Stool studies were Clostridium difficile negative.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Chest x-ray on [**8-22**] with improved
right lower lobe aeration.  No change in left lower lobe,
grossly clear, improved significantly from prior studies.

Chest CT on [**8-17**] showing complete left lower lobe
collapse secondary to mucous plugging with air/fluid levels
in bronchi, partial right lower lobe and right middle lobe
collapse; no pulmonary embolus, 2.1-cm low density lesion in
the right lobe of liver not consistent with simple cyst,
question hemangioma versus malignancy.  Recommend follow-up
ultrasound for further evaluation.

Arterial blood gas on [**8-15**] revealed pH 7.45, PACO2 27,
PAO2 58.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 53-year-old woman with severe
steroid-dependent reactive airway disease and greater than 10
hospital admissions for asthma in the past; now status post
Medical Intensive Care Unit admission secondary to acute
asthma flare likely secondary to community-acquired
multilobar pneumonia.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Echocardiogram showing greater than 55%
left ventricular ejection fraction.  No focal wall motion
abnormalities.  Normal left ventricle and right ventricle.
Elongated left atrium.  Normal pulmonary artery pressures.
Trace tricuspid regurgitation.  Trace mitral regurgitation.
Blood pressure was stable throughout admission.

2.  PULMONARY:  The patient with resolving asthma
exacerbation and resolving community-acquired pneumonia.
Solu-Medrol was decreased from 80 mg intravenously t.i.d.,
and eventually the patient was discharged on a prednisone
taper.  The patient on 120 mg p.o. at the time of discharge,
to be tapered down to likely no less than 20 mg p.o. q.d., as
this is the lowest dose the patient has been able to achieve
in the last four years.  The patient was continued on
Levaquin for community-acquired pneumonia.  The patient will
complete a 21-day course of Levaquin.  The patient was weaned
from humidified face mask oxygen to room air with occasional
p.r.n. use of humidfied nasal cannula oxygen.  The patient
desaturated to 89% with walking two flights of stairs on room
air and was given home oxygen for p.r.n. use.  Although the
patient is able to oxygenate around 96% on room air, she does
have intermittent desaturations not necessarily associated
with asthma exacerbations.  The etiology of this dyspnea and
desaturation is rather unclear in light of normal
echocardiogram and no evidence of congestive heart failure.
The patient does not always associate shortness of breath
with asthma flare.  The patient will continue albuterol
nebulizers p.r.n. as well as Flovent, Serevent, [**Last Name (LF) 103121**],
[**First Name3 (LF) **], Beconase, and prednisone at home.  The patient with
Samter's triad and severe history of atopy.  The patient was
to follow up with outpatient primary care doctor as well as
pulmonologist, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].  Recommended the patient be
evaluated by an allergist specializing in pulmonary
allergies.

3.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  Multilobar community-acquired
pneumonia resolving on Levaquin.  The patient was afebrile
with a white count of 10.3 at the time of discharge.  Urine
cultures and blood cultures were negative.  Extended course
of Levaquin prescribed due to delicate pulmonary status of
the patient.

4.  ENDOCRINE:  As the patient on high-dose steroids, a
regular insulin sliding-scale was written for; however, the
patient did not require insulin as blood sugars never
exceeded 167 during this admission.  Likely glucose will
decrease as steroid taper continues.

The patient is osteopenic found at bone density some point in
the last 10 years.  The patient was on Fosamax at one point
in time.  The patient was given a prescription for
Fosamax 10 mg p.o. q.d. at the time of dis