Admission Date:  [**2123-1-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2123-1-31**]

Date of Birth:   [**2061-1-6**]     Sex:  F

Service:

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:
Chest pain.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Coronary artery disease.
2.  Status post coronary artery bypass graft times three.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61 year-old
female with a past medical history for type 2 diabetes,
obesity, hypertension, and known coronary artery disease.
The patient had coronary artery stenting in [**2122-11-29**]
and was in her usual state of health until she awoke with
coughing, wheezing, chest heaviness and dull pain to the
shoulder blades.  The patient took two nitroglycerin tablets
without relief and was transported by EMS system to the
Emergency Department.  Cardiac workup was begun in the
Emergency Department and the patient was given 40 mg of
intravenous Lasix, supplemental oxygen and nitroglycerin
drip.  The patient was also beta blocked with Metoprolol 10
mg intravenous times one and begun on Integrilin as well as
heparin.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Coronary artery disease.

MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg po q day, atenolol 50 mg po q
day, Lipitor 10 mg po q day, Isosorbide mononitrate 30 mg q
day, Plavix 75 mg po q day, Lasix 20 mg q.d., Rosiglitazone
50 mg q.d., Glyburide 5 mg po q day, Metformin 1000 mg
b.i.d., Lisinopril 40 mg q day, Vitamin B-12 100 micrograms q
day, iron sulfate 325 mg t.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient is an elderly woman in
some distress.  Her vital signs are heart rate 94.  Blood
pressure 113/54.  Respirations 12.  Oxygen saturation 99% on
3 liters nasal cannula.  HEENT throat is clear.  Neck is
supple, midline.  No carotid bruit.  Chest is significant for
slight crackles at the bases.  Cardiovascular is regular rate
and rhythm without murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen is
soft, nontender, nondistended and obese.  No masses or
organomegaly.  Extremities are warm, noncyanotic,
nonedematous times four.  Neurological is grossly intact.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  CBC 9, 34.1, 194, urinalysis is
negative.  Chem 7 is 140, 5.1, 103, 24, 44, 1.1, 211.  CKs
241 with MB of 6 and troponin I of 4.0.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Emergency
Department and taken on an emergent basis to the cardiac
catheterization laboratory.  The patient had 100% occlusion
of the right coronary artery, 70% of left anterior descending
coronary artery and 70% of the circumflex.  Recommendations
made for urgent revascularization procedure.  Plavix was held
for the procedure and the patient was continued on aspirin,
beta blocker, statin and ace inhibitor.  The patient ruled
out for myocardial infarction post catheterization.  On
[**2123-1-21**] the patient received 1 unit of packed red blood cells
for a hematocrit of 26.  The patient tolerated this well
without problems.  The patient did well on the floor while
waiting her bypass procedure.  She was heparinized and did
receive a 2 unit of red blood cells on [**2123-1-24**] for a
hematocrit of 29.3.

The patient was appropriately preoped and taken to the
Operating Room on [**2123-1-25**].  At that time she had a coronary
artery bypass graft times three using the left internal
mammary coronary artery and saphenous vein graft.  The
patient tolerated this without complications.
Postoperatively, the patient was taken to the Intensive Care
Unit for close monitoring.  She was maintained on Propofol
and a Protonin drips, as well as an insulin drip for elevated
blood sugars.  Nitroglycerin drip was used intermittently for
her hypertension.  This was titrated to keep mean arterial
pressure between 60 and 90.  The patient was extubated on
postoperative day number two and subsequently transferred to
the floor.  She was transfused an additional 2 units of
packed red blood cells.  On the floor, the patient did well
without any acute issues.  She was seen by physical therapy
for conditioning and gait training.  Chest tubes and pacer
wires were discontinued on postoperative day number three.
Cardiac medications were titrated to effect for heart rate
and blood pressure.  The patient had an otherwise uneventful
course except for on the early morning of [**2123-1-30**] when the
patient had a short run of seven beat ventricular
tachycardia.  The patient was kept for 24 hours after this
for monitoring.  Since there was no significant repeat or
other arrhythmia at this time, the patient was discharged to
home on postoperative day number six tolerating a regular
diet and taking adequate pain control on po pain medications
and having no more anginal equivalents or arrhythmias on
telemetry.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE:  Vital signs are stable,
afebrile.  Temperature 98.3, heart rate 84, blood pressure
143/70, respirations 20, oxygen saturation 94% on room air.
Chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Sternal
incision was clean and dry with no drainage.  Cardiovascular
is regular rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs or gallops.
Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities warm
and well perfuse without cyanosis or edema.  Neurologically
intact.

LABORATORY ON DISCHARGE:  CBC 7.8, 32.6, 208.  Chemistries
137, 4.7, 101, 27, 26, 7.8, 129, magnesium 1.8.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Lasix 20 mg po b.i.d. times seven
days, potassium chloride 20 milliequivalents b.i.d. times
seven days.  Colace 100 mg po b.i.d., aspirin 325 mg q day,
percocet 5/325 one to two tablets q 4 hours prn.  Glyburide 5
mg q.d., iron complex 150 mg q.d., Lipitor 10 mg po q day,
cyanocobalamin 50 micrograms q day, Metformin 1000 mg b.i.d.,
Rosiglitazone 2 mg q.d., Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.

DISPOSITION:  To home.

DIET:  Cardiac, diabetic.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient is to follow up with her
cardiologist in one to two weeks.  Diuresis and adjustment of
cardiac medications should be addressed at that time.  The
patient should follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 70**] in four weeks
time.





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 75**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 14041**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2123-1-31**]  04:14
T:  [**2123-2-2**]  05:54
JOB#:  [**Job Number 14042**]
