Admission Date: [**2112-2-11**]        Discharge Date: [**2112-3-15**]

Date of Birth:  [**2063-4-12**]        Sex:

Service:


ADMISSION DIAGNOSES:
1. Abdominal pain of unknown origin.
2. Human immunodeficiency virus.
3. Hepatitis C.
4. Thrombocytopenia.
5. Anemia.
6. Renal insufficiency.


DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and vancomycin-
   resistant enterococcus septicemia.
2. Anemia.
3. Thrombocytopenia.
4. Human immunodeficiency virus disease.
5. Hepatitis C.
6. Renal insufficiency.


ADMITTING HISTORY AND PHYSICAL:  Please note, this History
and Physical is as per Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3315**] (pager #[**Numeric Identifier 108451**]).

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  A 48-year-old male with HIV, a
CD4 count of 600 in [**2111-10-19**], with a history of
thrombocytopenia who complains of abdominal pain x 4 to 5
months which has worsened in the last several days. He had
previously been worked up at an outside hospital but felt
unsatisfied with his treatment. He does have associated
nausea, and vomiting, and diarrhea. He admits to a weight
loss of 10 to 15 pounds over the previous week. Also admits
to fevers and chills and complains of a rash over his trunk
and leg with positive pruritus, headaches, nose bleeds, and
gingival bleeding that he has noticed.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for HIV disease x 14 years
(for which he has stopped antiretroviral therapy),
thrombocytopenia, hepatitis C, question cirrhosis.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Include Protonix, oxycodone, 3
antiretroviral's that he discontinued 2 months ago, and
Ultram.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for diabetes and CHF in his
mother. His father died of unknown causes.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his mother in [**Name (NI) 669**]. He
denies any alcohol, smoking, or drug use. He has been clean
for 2 years. Previously he has used cocaine and heroin IV,
and he is currently sexually active with women.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  As per HPI.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature of 100.6, pulse of 103,
blood pressure of 123/76, respiratory rate of 20, pulse
oximetry of 97% on room air. Generally, a chronically ill
male. Appears in no acute distress. HEENT with question of
macroglossia. Mucous membranes are dry. Extraocular movements
intact, and PERRLA intact. Neck is supple with no
lymphadenopathy. Cardiovascular with a regular rate and
rhythm, slightly tachy, [**12-24**] blowing murmur heard. Abdominal
exam with generalized tenderness noted in the superior
portion of the abdomen. Dull to percussion, but no shifting
dullness, and no masses appreciated. Rectal exam is guaiac
negative, as per the emergency department resident, no masses
noted. Extremities with 1 to 2+ pitting edema to the knee.
Neuro exam reveals alert and oriented x 3. A vague and poor
historian. Ambulates well. Skin with diffuse raised white
papules, pruritic, without drainage noted on the back of his
legs bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  Sodium of 135, potassium of
3.9, chloride of 104, bicarbonate of 25, BUN of 18,
creatinine of 1.4, glucose of 97. ALT of 96, AST of 468,
amylase of 41, alkaline phosphatase of 102, lipase of 33,
total bilirubin of 3.0, albumin of 2.4. White blood cell of
7.7, hematocrit of 29.5, platelets of 48. UA showed some
small blood and occasional bacteria.

RADIOLOGIC STUDIES:  Ultrasound of his abdomen showed no
ductal dilatation, mild gallbladder wall edema which probably
relates to hepatitic disease as per radiology resident.

Chest x-ray showed low volumes with segmented atelectasis in
the right middle lobe.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the floor, at
which time he spiked a temperature to 104.1 in the first
couple hours. He was started on ceftriaxone. An ID consult
was obtained as well as a hepatobiliary consult. His
ceftriaxone was switched over to IV vancomycin as per ID. He
was diagnosed as having had gram-positive cocci bacteremia.
Aggressive fluid resuscitation was used to maintain his blood
pressure, and the patient was transferred to the medical
intensive care unit. The septicemia was identified as being
staph aureus.

On hospital day 4, Kaposi sarcoma was identified on his left
foot by infectious disease. The previously mentioned leg
culture revealed later that the staph aureus that grew out
was MRSA. More history was gained from the ID consult as they
had access to his records from his workup at an outside
hospital. His stool had been negative for C. diff, he had a
negative EGD; and a CT at that time had shown a large
gallbladder, hardened wall, and a diffuse collection around
the pancreas. Retroperitoneal density and retroperitoneal
adenopathy were also noted. In light of the MRSA positive
cultures his antibiotic coverage was expanded to include
vancomycin, ceftriaxone, and Flagyl. The patient was
transfused up to a hematocrit of 30, and an echo was ordered
to assess for endocarditis.

On [**2-15**], hospital day 4, the patient's CD4 count was
identified as being 158; down significantly from the previous
value of 602. The patient remained afebrile for hospital day
3 and hospital day 4. At the end of hospital day 4 the
patient was transferred to the floor out of the intensive
care unit while a tolerating a p.o. diet. The patient's
central line was discontinued and a PICC line was placed for
long-term antibiotic therapy. On the floor, the patient's
antibiotic coverage was changed to Flagyl and vancomycin. The
patient continued to remain afebrile. On [**2112-2-17**] the
patient underwent a TEE to evaluate for possible SBE. No
vegetations were found. On the night of [**2-17**] the patient
became lethargic and was started on rifamycin for possible
encephalopathy. The patient underwent a bone scan on [**2112-2-18**] which showed no evidence of osteomyelitis.

Over the following couple of days the patient remained
afebrile, although he developed severe anasarca; and on [**2112-2-22**] he tried to pull out his PICC line, which had to be
replaced. Psychiatry saw the patient and determined that he
was in delirium (mild) which was due to multifactorial's
including AIDS, effects of opiates, resolving sepsis, and
hepatic encephalopathy. One of the possibilities raise by
psychiatry was surreptitious drug use within the hospital.
For this, the patient's urine was tested and turned up
positive only for opiates which he had been receiving for
analgesia while in the hospital.

On [**2112-2-26**] cultures came back from his PICC line that
were positive not only for MRSA but also VRE. For this ID was
consulted again, and they recommended discontinuing the
current PICC line and adding dactinomycin to cover both VRE
and MRSA. So, consistent with these recommendation, on [**2112-2-26**] vancomycin was discontinued and dactinomycin was
initiated.

On [**2112-2-27**] the patient complained of increased fluid
in his lower extremities, scrotum, and abdomen. In order to
control this edema, his furosemide dose was increased and the
patient was continued on his dactinomycin. On the 12th,
surgery was also consulted for possible lymph node biopsy to
rule out lymphoma to explain his thrombocytopenia and his
lower extremity edema. At that time, surgery felt that any
biopsy would carry with it a significant risk of
complications. Interventional radiology attempted a lymph
node aspiration which showed MRSA but was an inadequate
sample to rule out lymphoma. The patient remained stable and
on current therapy until [**2112-3-2**] at which time he
spiked to a temperature of 101.9. The white blood cell count
of the patient dropped from 7 to 2.1, and his platelets
dropped from 39 to 22. Hematocrit was 26.7. UA was sent which
was positive for yeast. His Foley was discontinued, and the
patient was started on Diflucan and levofloxacin empirically.
Blood cultures subsequently found gram-negative rods in his
blood, and he failed his trial of void for which a Foley was
re-placed with a 22 French coude catheter, and ceftazidime
was added to the antibiotic regimen. The patient had also
been started on lactulose p.o.

On [**3-3**], sur