Admission Date:  [**2109-12-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2109-12-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2046-9-18**]     Sex:  F

Service:  O-MED

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath, cough, and fatigue.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 63-year-old woman with
extensive small cell lung carcinoma with metastases to [**Last Name (LF) 500**],
[**First Name3 (LF) **], and liver.  She was treated with cisplatin and
etoposide and radiation therapy to the chest for metastases
to the thoracic spine in [**2107**].  A cerebellar metastasis was
resected in [**2108**] with whole brain radiation therapy.

A few months ago, she was noted to have metastases to the
left pelvis which was also treated with radiation therapy.
More recently, she was discovered to have metastases to the
liver which have also been treated a total of five cycles of
chemotherapy with her last dose administered on [**2109-12-12**] (five days prior to admission).

The patient was doing well on the day after her last
chemotherapy except for left shoulder pain which was relieved
with the application of Bengay.  The following day, three
days prior to admission, the patient developed a cough with
yellow sputum production, and felt very weak, and slept the
entire day.  Since that time, her cough has continued, and
she has been feeling progressively short of breath.  The
shortness of breath is worsened with exertion and describes
pleuritic chest pain.  The chest pain is only present with
coughing and not associated with nausea, vomiting, or
diaphoresis.  She has been having subjective fevers at home,
but no chills or night sweats.  Both her husband and her son
have been sick recently with an upper respiratory infection.
She denies hemoptysis of dysphagia, but she has been using
her inhaler more frequently over the last three days.  She
was scheduled to receive her flu shot this week.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   On review of systems, the patient
reports decreased oral intake over the last three days prior
to admission with a bowel of soup and some Boost as her only
oral intake during this time period.  She had one episode of
urinary incontinence yesterday evening, but she has not had
any problem since.  She denies bowel incontinence or
abdominal pain.  No recent blurred vision, focal weakness or
numbness, or difficulty with ambulation.

The patient was admitted directly from the Clinic for
evaluation of shortness of breath.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Small cell lung carcinoma diagnosed in [**2107-11-30**], and status post radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
 2.  Metastases to T11, status post radiation therapy and
chemotherapy.
 3.  Metastases to cerebellum, status post resection and
whole brain radiation therapy.
 4.  Metastases to the left pelvis, status post radiation
therapy.
 5.  Metastases to the liver, status post chemotherapy times
five cycles.
 6.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
 7.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 8.  History of pulmonary embolism in [**2109-3-29**] at
[**Hospital **] Hospital.
 9.  History of supraventricular tachycardia.
10.  Laminectomy in [**2092**].
11.  Tonsillectomy in [**2068**].
12.  History of hypertension.
13.  History of diverticula.
14.  Question of transient ischemic attack in [**2106**].
15.  Umbilical hernia.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a greater than 30-pack-year
smoking history.  She denies current alcohol use.  She
formerly worked as a part-time truck driver for the Town of
[**Location (un) 932**], but she has been retired for the last two years.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history medical history revealed her
family history is strongly positive for rheumatic heart
disease.  Her mother died at the age of 53 of heart failure,
and brother also with rheumatic heart disease and died in his
40s.  Her father is 88 and is status post coronary artery
bypass graft in [**2105**].  She has no other siblings.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Outpatient medications included)
 1.  Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.o.d.
 2.  Elavil 25 mg p.o. q.h.s.
 3.  Coumadin 4 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Effexor 75 mg p.o. q.d.
 5.  Diltiazem-ER 100 mg p.o. q.d.
 6.  Ranitidine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 7.  Lipitor 30 mg p.o. q.d.
 8.  Theophylline 200 mg p.o. q.d.
 9.  Singulair 10 mg p.o. q.d.
10.  Flovent 44 mcg 2 puffs b.i.d.
11.  Combivent as needed.
12.  Senna one tablet p.o. q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Vital signs on
admission to the floor revealed temperature was 100.7, blood
pressure was 100/52, heart rate was 112, respiratory rate was
24 to 26, oxygen saturation was 93% on 2 liters.  In general,
the patient was tachypneic, but she was sitting upright in
bed and appeared slightly uncomfortable.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose, and throat examination revealed the oropharynx was
clear.  Mucous membranes were dry.  Jugular venous pulsation
was not elevated.  Her neck was supple with a large
well-healed surgical scar on the left posterior neck.  Her
sclerae were anicteric.  On chest examination, she had
diffuse coarse breath sounds bilaterally with a prolonged
expiratory phase and left basilar rales.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed she was tachycardic, normal first heart
sound and second heart sound.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops
were appreciated.  Her abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended with normal active bowel sounds.  No
hepatosplenomegaly was noted.  Extremity examination revealed
good capillary refill with no lower extremity edema.  On
neurologic examination, she was alert and oriented times
three.  Motor was [**6-2**] in the upper extremities and lower
extremities.  Sensation was intact to light touch in the
bilateral lower extremities.  She had reproducible back pain
to palpation in the left scapular area.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratory
values on admission revealed white blood cell count was 1.2,
hemoglobin was 10.5, hematocrit was 30.8, and platelets were
190.  The differential on the white blood cell count revealed
20% neutrophils, 30% bands, 22% lymphocytes, and 26%
monocytes.  Her chemistry panel revealed sodium was 131,
potassium was 6.2 (with a recheck of 3.3), chloride was 93,
bicarbonate was 25, blood urea nitrogen was 25, creatinine
was 0.9, and blood glucose was 105.  Absolute neutrophil
count was 250.  PT was 14.9, PTT was 29.3, INR was 1.5.  LDH
was 795, total bilirubin was 0.9, AST was 54, ALT was 17,
alkaline phosphatase was 142.  Calcium was 9, phosphorous was
3.2, magnesium was 2.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  During hospitalization, a chest
x-ray on admission showed post radiation changes in the left
perihilar region with hazy areas of increased opacity in the
lower lobe (the right greater than the left, possibly
indicating pneumonia; however, unable to access to motion
artifact.

A [**Month/Day (1) 500**] scan on [**2109-12-24**] revealed no new metastases
with improvement in known metastases in the left pelvis and
T11.

Magnetic resonance imaging of the head on [**2109-12-23**]
revealed no evidence of new metastases.  Stable postoperative
changes in the left cerebellar hemisphere, air/fluid levels
in maxillary sinus, and stable right parafalcine hemangioma.

An transthoracic echocardiogram on [**2109-12-20**] revealed
an ejection fraction of 60% to 65%, 1+ aortic regurgitation,
trivial mitral regurgitation, mild pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension.  No effusions.

Electrocardiogram on admission revealed sinus tachycardia and
early R wave progression.  No ST-T wave changes compared to
electrocardiogram dated [**2109-1-21**].

IMPRESSION:  This is a 63-year-old female with small cell
lung cancer with multiple sites of metastases presenting with
shortness of breath, cough, and fatigue times three days.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  PULMONARY SYSTEM:  The patient was admitted for dyspnea,
cough, and fever which was thought secondary to
community-acquired pneumonia versus viral infection.

On hospital day two, she was noted to have progressive
worsening of respiratory distress, and an arterial blood gas
was performed which showed a pH of 7.22, a PCO2 of 61, and a
PO2 of 354, and a bicarbonate of 26.

Due to her progressive worsening of respiratory symptoms and
a mixed respiratory and 