Admission Date:  [**2143-1-2**]     Discharge Date: [**2143-1-19**]

Date of Birth:   [**2077-3-8**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 66-year-old woman with
a complicated medical history who was admitted to Cardiology
Service in the Coronary Care Unit with shortness of breath,
chest pain, congestive heart failure and chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.  She ruled in for a non-ST elevation
myocardial infarction with elevated cardiac enzymes and ST
depressions.  She was treated medically on the Cardiology
Service with an ejection fraction of 15-20%.  She had no
prior known history of coronary artery disease.  She was
taken to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory on the 15th,
the day of admission, which showed an 80% proximal left main
lesion and a total occlusion of the right coronary artery
with wedge pressure of 35 and PA pressure of 30.  Patient was
unable to lie flat and access was gained through basilic
artery and basilic vein.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
2.  Bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
3.  Prior heavy alcohol abuse.

Patient was started on nitroglycerin drip in the
Catheterization Laboratory.  Echocardiogram showed an
ejection fraction of 20% with inferior hypokinesis and
lateral hypokinesis and dyskinesis.  Chest x-ray showed
congestive heart failure and a left-sided effusion.  Patient
had an inferior aortic balloon pump placed in the Cardiac
Catheterization Laboratory.  The patient was on intravenous
steroids at that time and was referred to Cardiac Surgery
after cardiac catheterization.  The patient also had no prior
surgical history and no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Solu-Medrol.
2.  Lasix.
3.  Aspirin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient did admit at that time to one
and a half packs of tobacco per day and 12 to 15 beers per
week.

PREOPERATIVE LABORATORIES:  Sodium 137, potassium 3.9,
chloride 100, carbon dioxide 23, BUN 35, creatinine 1.8,
blood sugar 183.  White count 18.6, hematocrit 34.5.  PT
14.8, PTT 36.7 and INR of 1.5.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was sedated in the
Intensive Care Unit with intra-aortic balloon pump and blood
pressure of 128/68 and sinus rhythm in the 80's.  PA
pressures were 42/20 at the time with an index of 4.7.  The
patient was satting 94% on two liters.  Her lungs were clear.
Abdomen was soft and non-tender.  Her right lower extremity
was cool with no palpable or dopplerable DP or PT's.  Her
left lower extremity had dopplerable PT and DP pulses.

The patient was referred to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] for evaluation of
coronary artery bypass graft after her non-Q wave myocardial
infarction and remained in the Coronary Care Unit.  The
patient remained under the care of Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] _____ of
Cardiology.  She remained sedated in the unit.  Creatinine
came down slightly to 1.7.  The patient had a Swan-Ganz
placed preoperatively on the Medical Service for better
hemodynamic monitoring.  Preoperative diagnoses included
cardiogenic shock and acute tubular necrosis.  On the [**1-4**], the patient underwent coronary artery bypass
grafting times four by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] with a LIMA to the LAD, vein
graft to the PDA, vein graft to the OM1 and a vein graft to
the diagonal.  The patient was transferred to the
Cardiothoracic ICU on a milrinone drip at 0.5 mcg/kg/min, a
Levophed drip at 0.07 mcg/kg/min and propofol at 20
mcg/kg/min with an intra-aortic balloon pump in place.  On
postoperative day one patient remained on insulin, Levophed,
milrinone and propofol drips.  She was in the 100's in sinus
rhythm with a blood pressure of 100/46.  The balloon remained
at 1:1.  The patient remained intubated and sedated with weak
peripheral pulses.  White count was 9, hematocrit 26, BUN 40,
creatinine 1.9 with a potassium of 4.4.  The plan was to try
and wean the IVP first and hopefully discontinue it and then
wean the milrinone down.  The patient was transfused one unit
packed red blood cells for an hematocrit of 26.  Platelet
count was 55,000.  HIT panel was sent off.  Levophed was
increased slightly to raise her pressure above 100 systolic
and the patient remained in critical condition in the
Intensive Care Unit.  On postoperative day two the patient
was started on amiodarone at 1.0 and remained on Milrinone,
Levophed, propofol.  She was also given an alcohol drip in
addition to insulin.  The patient at 100 A-paced with a blood
pressure 116/60.  She remained ventilated.  She had coarse
bilateral breath sounds.  Her abdomen was soft, non-tender,
non-distended.  She did have monophasic right DP and PT
pulses.  Also on postoperative day two the balloon had been
pulled out.  The chest tubes remained in.  The patient's
Lasix diuresis was increased to help keep her urine output
about 100 cc an hour.  Her index was 2.5 so Milrinone wean
was begun.  She was up 16.5 kg.  The patient was also seen by
Physical Therapy for follow up.  Also on postoperative day
two later in the day the patient received three cardioversion
shocks which failed.  The amiodarone was re-bolused.  The
patient also had poor paO2's and sputum was sent.  Empiric
ceftriaxone was started for very thick sputum and a chest
x-ray was obtained.  By postoperative day three, the patient
continued diuresis.  Remained on amiodarone, Levophed at 0.1,
Milrinone at 0.25 as well as propofol and insulin and alcohol
drip at 0.5.  The patient was also started on Plavix and
continued with intravenous Lasix.  The patient remained on
ceftriaxone.  Potassium was 3.6, BUN 45, creatinine 3.0 with
a white count of 10.4 and hematocrit of 29.2.  The patient
was dosing vancomycin by level and it was 29.6 on that
morning.  Patient remained intubated with propofol continued
on the ventilator and sedated.  Sternum was stable.  The
lungs were clear bilaterally with S1, S2.  No murmur.  The
patient remained in stable but critical condition.
Electrophysiology Fellow came by to see the patient for
consult for continuing atrial fibrillation and hepatic
dysfunction on amiodarone.  They recommended decreasing the
dose but continuing the amiodarone and trying to
anticoagulate the patient if the HIT antibody was negative or
possibly using Angiomax if the patient was HIT positive and
only considering coumadization if those steps had to be
taken.  In addition, liver function tests had to be followed
carefully.  The patient was also seen by the Clinical
Nutrition team and the Renal Fellow on [**1-7**] for
evaluation due to continued renal failure for known baseline
creatinine of 1.5 which had risen to 3.0 on the 20th.  They
suggested that with ATN secondary to her low blood pressure
and a decreased ejection fraction with some element of sepsis
that the patient had decreased systemic vascular resistance
that morning with a blood pressure of 83-136/40-60's, in that
setting there also could possibly be a pneumonia or biliary
source for the sepsis and the workup was begun to try and
determine any potential source.  The patient continued on
ceftriaxone and it was recommended that Carafate be
discontinued.  They said they would continue to follow.  The
patient might require hemodialysis or CVDHD for volume
overloading issues.  The patient was also seen by the
Hematology Fellow and they were asked to consult for the
possibility of hemolysis with a rising total bilirubin, liver
function tests and LDH.  The total bilirubin on the day of
examination was 7.6 up from 5.4 the day before.  The patient
had a liver ultrasound done that day.  Please refer to the
final report.  The patient did remain sedated and intubated.
Obviously did not respond to any verbal stimuli.  In atrial
fibrillation with a pressure of 136/61 and a heart rate of
117.  The patient was satting 94%.  Hematology made the
recommendations.  Patient was also seen by the Neurology
attending.  On the day of her examination, [**1-7**], the
patient also was noted to have a sluggish left pupil and an
upgoing right toe on neuro examination by house staff.  She
noted the patient's altered mental status which could be due
possibly to multiple metabolic issues such as elevated CPK's,
creatinine and b