Admission Date: [**2186-10-28**]        Discharge Date:  [**2186-12-9**]

Date of Birth:  [**2118-10-27**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Biliary obstruction.

Coronary artery disease.

Congestive heart failure.

History of myocardial infarction.

Status post coronary artery bypass graft.

History of atrial fibrillation.

Chronic renal insufficiency.

Status post bilateral inguinal hernia repair.

Hypertension.

Status post insertion of pacemaker and implantable
cardioverter defibrillator.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Toxic metabolic delirium.

Respiratory failure.

Bilateral pleural effusions.

Failure to wean from ventilation.

Adult respiratory distress syndrome.

Atrial fibrillation.

Ventricular tachycardia.

Congestive heart failure.

Hypertension.

Coronary artery disease/myocardial ischemia.

Liver failure.

Superior mesenteric artery thrombosis, status post
exploratory laparotomy with thrombectomy.

Diarrhea.

Volume overload.

Malnutrition.

Hypokalemia.

Hyponatremia.

Acute renal failure.

Anemia.

Pneumonia.

Bandemia.

Sepsis.

Staphylococcal bacteremia.

Adrenal insufficiency.

HISTORY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  Mr. [**Known lastname 59459**] was a 67 year old male
with an extensive past medical history as noted in the
admission diagnosis who was transferred to the [**Hospital3 **]
[**Hospital **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] on [**2186-10-28**] with
questionable obstructive jaundice for which he was
transferred directly to the Medical Service to the Intensive
Care Unit.  Upon workup for this obstructive jaundice,
Surgery was consulted and it was noted that the patient was
having a significant gastrointestinal bleed and was, in fact,
found on computerized tomography scan to have a superior
mesenteric artery thrombosis which was felt to be the cause
of his abdominal pain rather than biliary problem in origin.
He was taken urgently to the Operating Room on [**2186-10-29**], and at that time underwent an exploratory laparotomy
and a thrombectomy of a superior mesenteric artery
thrombosis.  There was no necrotic bowel and no bowel was
resected.  The patient had a long and protracted
postoperative course subsequent to that time which was 41
days in duration and is most easily explained by systems.

Neurologically, the patient's main issue was change in mental
status.  This was felt to be secondary to his overall septic
state, his liver failure, resulting in a toxic metabolic
syndrome.  There was no evidence of any sort of mass effect
or bleed or central nervous infection.  Throughout the course
of his hospitalization his mental status continued to
deteriorate as he became more obtunded.  He did become more
arousable in the final week of his hospitalization but never
truly reached an alert and oriented baseline.

Respiratory, as noted during the patient's postoperative
Intensive Care Unit course his respiratory status was
complicated by development of significant pleural effusions
and pulmonary edema which were secondary to pneumonias.  The
patient suffered a volume overload.  He developed an adult
respiratory distress syndrome type picture at the mid point
of his hospitalization and failed to wean from the ventilator
over the course of his hospitalization.  During attempts to
wean the patient from the ventilator, he suffered from
several episodes of apnea for which no etiology was found.
In order to relieve his effusions, diuresis was attempted as
were thoracenteses but the effusions continued to recur,
compromising the patient's pulmonary function.

Cardiovascular, the patient had a history of atrial
fibrillation which significantly complicated his hospital
course, secondary to hypotension from that source, in
addition to his septic update.  Eventually we were able to
reach rate-controlled state with his atrial fibrillation
using Digoxin as his blood pressure did not tolerate any sort
of calcium channel blockade or beta blockade.  Towards the
end of his hospitalization the patient continued to
experience runs of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.  His
pacer was notably shut off on the day he was made Comfort-
Measures-Only.  The patient came in with a baseline ejection
fraction of 20 percent which made managing his huge fluid
shifts extremely difficult.  Although diuresis was attempted,
the patient continued to experience recurrent episodes of
fulminant congestive heart failure which complicated his
hepatic function secondary to severe venous congestion.  All
attempts were made to augment his cardiac contractility with
the use of Digoxin, but in the end, this was not successful.

Gastrointestinal, as noted the patient came in an superior
mesenteric artery thrombosis which was treated with urgent
operation and there was no bowel resected.  He was
anticoagulated postoperatively for this and his atrial
fibrillation and never again during his hospitalization
demonstrated any evidence of bowel ischemia.

Regarding his liver function, the patient's status continued
to deteriorate up until the mid point of his hospitalization
at which point his bilirubin reached above 40.  On workup
this was found not to be secondary to hemolysis or an
obstructive process but in fact, after consultation with the
Hepatology Service, is most likely secondary to his sepsis,
his total parenteral nutrition and his severe congestive
heart failure resulting in venous congestion.  We attempted
to reduce the venous congestion through continuous venovenous
hemodialysis in order to improve the patient's liver
function.  Unfortunately after decreasing to total bilirubin
of 30 we did not really see any improvement, although we had
stopped his total parenteral nutrition and were treating his
sepsis as aggressively as possible.  The patient's main fluid
issues were secondary to huge volume shifts.  He was well
over 25 kg positive at times in terms of body weight
secondary to the huge volumes he required to maintain his
intravascular status during his septic state.  These shifts
contributed to his pulmonary edema and his congestive heart
failure.  We were aggressive in our measures to diurese him
with a variety of diuretics and as noted below we even
attempts continuous venovenous hemodialysis after
consultation with the Nephrology Service.  The patient also
had significant electrolyte abnormalities secondary to
nasogastric suctioning, diarrhea and fluid shifts which were
aggressively corrected.

Renally the patient went into acute renal failure with
progressively worsening BUN and creatinine, reaching an
azotemia with a BUN in the mid 100s.  The Nephrology Service
agreed that continuous venovenous hemodialysis was
appropriate to see if we could improve the patient's status.
This was attempted for one week and although it did clear his
azotemia, upon discontinuation of continuous venovenous
hemodialysis his renal function continued to return towards
his baseline.

Hematologically, as noted the patient was anticoagulated with
heparin and Coumadin for his thrombosis and atrial
fibrillation.  He had no significant episodes of bleeding but
did require some blood transfusions for anemia which is felt
to be secondary to decreased production.

The patient had a number of infectious disease issues which
included pneumonia secondary to methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus and generalized sepsis which was also
Staphylococcal in etiology.  There was a question of fungemia
secondary to [**Female First Name (un) 564**] growing on catheter tips and in his
sputum for which he was started on Caspofungin.  The patient
was tired on a variety of broad-spectrum antibiotics and was
maintained during the final week and a half through his
hospitalization on Vancomycin, Zosyn, Metronidazole and
lastly we added Caspofungin for essentially total
antimicrobial coverage, although he failed to improve on
this.

By postoperative day Number 41, as the patient's mental
status had failed to significantly improve and the patient
remained in respiratory failure with failure to wean from
ventilation, even after undergoing tracheostomy, and as the
patient continued to require significant amounts of
vasopressor support from Levophed and P