Admission Date:  [**2135-7-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2135-9-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2096-6-28**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Trauma Surgery

DISCHARGE DATE:  Yet to be determined.  This is an interim
summary of the patient's progress while on the Trauma Surgery
Service.  The patient has not been discharged yet, but this
will serve as the initial discharge summary up until the
patient's discharge which should be within the next day or
two.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  On [**2135-7-29**], the patient
presented.  He is a 39-year-old male with a history of
alcohol abuse.  Reportedly fell down from a [**Location (un) 10043**]
height with a questionable loss of consciousness.  He was
evaluated at an outside hospital and he was found to have
bilateral wrist fractures, a right superior and inferior
pubic ramus fracture, a L1 compression fracture.  Therefore,
he was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Department as an inebriated, although
hemodynamically stable trauma patient.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Only alcohol abuse.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Split thickness skin graft to his
right arm.

MEDICATIONS:  He reportedly takes no medications at home.

ALLERGIES:  The patient was later discovered to have
allergies to Heparin.  Apparently, he has Heparin induced
thrombocytopenia.  Also allergies to lobster and ragweed.

PHYSICAL EXAM UPON PRESENTATION TO THE TRAUMA CENTER:
Patient was awake and alert, but in mild distress.  Vital
signs initially:  Heart rate of 103, blood pressure 122/74,
respiratory rate of 16, breathing 98% on 3 liters nasal
cannula.  HEENT examination showed his tympanic membranes to
be clear bilaterally.  His extraocular motion was intact.
His head was normocephalic, atraumatic.  His trachea was
midline.  There was no jugular venous distention noted.  His
chest examination showed a stable chest without any external
trauma.  His lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
His heart was a regular, rate, and rhythm without any
murmurs.  His abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended and
active bowel sounds were heard.  His pelvis was stable to
[**Doctor Last Name **] anterior, posterior, and laterally.  Extremities:  There
were deformities of the bilateral wrists noted on both upper
extremities.  There were 2+ palpable pulses on both upper and
lower extremities.  His rectal examination showed normal
tone, and normal prostate.  Heme and guaiac were negative.
His back examination showed no stepoffs, but positive lumbar
tenderness.

X-RAYS:  The following films were obtained from the outside
hospital:  A chest x-ray showed the mediastinum to be within
normal limits.  There was no hemothorax.  There was no
pneumothorax.  There was a question of a L1 fracture.  His
pelvic x-ray showed a superior and inferior right pubic rami
fracture.

LABORATORY DATA ON THE DAY OF ADMISSION:  White count of
17.4, hematocrit of 35.1, platelets of 127.  Electrolytes
showed a sodium of 139, potassium of 3.6, chloride of 106,
bicarb of 17, BUN of 5, and a creatinine of 0.8, glucose is
122.  Patient's coagulation studies were a PT of 15.2, INR of
1.5, and a PTT of 30.7.  His tox screen showed alcohol at
0.108.  He was positive for cocaine, opiates, and
benzodiazepines.  His urinalysis showed [**7-26**] red blood cells,
otherwise negative.  His liver function tests were not
recorded.

Studies that were obtained at [**Hospital1 **] on the
day of admission included a CT scan of the head which was
negative for any acute injury.  A CT scan of the cervical
spine which was negative.  A CT scan of the thoracic, lumbar,
and sacral areas show a L1 burst fracture with question of a
posterior wedge fracture.  The L1 pedicle was involved as
well as left L1 foramina.

CT scan of abdomen and pelvis showed fatty liver with
diverticula were noted.  There was no free fluid noted in the
abdomen.  Right and left wrist x-rays on both upper
extremities showed distal radius fractures in both wrists.

Patient was admitted to the Trauma Surgery Service, made NPO,
put on flat bed rest, and C spine, and logroll precautions.
An Orthopedic consultation was obtained.  Patient remained
hemodynamically stable throughout his presentation and workup
in the Emergency Department, although he was intoxicated.

A blood gas was also drawn showing a pH of 7.28, pCO2 of 29,
pO2 of 81, bicarb of 14, and a base deficit of -11.  Patient
was aggressively hydrated, and his hematocrits and arterial
blood gages were then ordered and followed.  As mentioned,
Orthopedic Surgery was consulted for his pelvic fractures as
well as his bilateral wrist fractures.

The patient's left distal radius fracture was reduced under
conscious sedation and films were obtained.  The patient's
right upper extremity was splinted, and had good perfusion.
His left upper extremity was also splinted, and showed good
perfusion with capillary refill time less than two seconds as
well as palpable pulses.  Patient's right iliac fracture
extended into the acetabulum.  He also had right sacral
fractures and a right superoinferior pubic ramus fracture as
previously mentioned.  He was placed on logroll precautions
because of these fractures.

Patient was taken to the operating room with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] on [**2135-8-1**] for an open reduction internal fixation of his right
distal radius fracture.  Patient's left distal radius
fracture after splinting and reduction films showed good
alignment, however, the right distal radius fracture was
taken to the operating room for open reduction internal
fixation.

The patient did receive 2 units of packed red blood cells
perioperatively for some anemia that was occurring.  Patient
was also fitted with a TLSO brace to stabilize his thoracic
and lumbar spine.  Also during his hospital course, on
approximately [**2135-8-5**], patient began having increasing
abdominal pain, distention in his right lower quadrant.  An
upright chest x-ray showed air to be underneath the diaphragm
on the right side suggesting a hollow viscus perforation.
With re-examination, it was determined the patient had severe
right lower quadrant guarding as well as peritoneal signs
suggestive of a perforation viscus and subsequent
peritonitis.

The patient was taken to the operating room approximately the
night of [**8-5**] for an exploratory laparotomy.  The
patient underwent also a right hemicolectomy for a perforated
right colon.  The surgeon was Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 7820**].
The patient was started on regimen of empiric antibiotics
also at this time including ampicillin, levofloxacin, and
Flagyl.  His hematocrits were followed for any signs of
bleeding.  He was aggressively resuscitated with intravenous
fluids approximately 5 liters and had good urine output.
He was given Pepcid for DVT prophylaxis as well as Venodyne
leg stockings for DVT prophylaxis.

Postoperatively, the next several days the patient continued
to have a tachycardia.  Central line was placed, and
patient's CVP was analyzed to be approximately 17.  The
patient continued to have good urine output and a patient's
history of alcoholism suggested DT's etiology, and the
patient was treated with Ativan for his agitation and
tachycardia.  He was also treated for his pain.  He did
remain hemodynamically stable besides the tachycardia which
was in the 130s to 140s.  He did spike a fever during this
time, and had blood cultures drawn and had his antibiotic
regimen continued.  He was reintubated in the PACU for airway
protection and agitation.  But this was only temporary and he
was subsequently extubated the following day.

The suspicion of a possible pulmonary embolism led to the
order of a chest CT angiogram, which did show a positive left
lower lobe pulmonary artery thrombus.  The patient's history
of having Heparin-induced antibody positive did not allow him
to be Heparinized, and therefore a Hematology consultation
was obtained to aide in anticoagulation for the patient's
pulmonary embolism.  The patient was started on Hirudin drip
to continue his anticoagulation for the pulmonary embolism
per Hematology.  The patient also underwent a screen for
rehabilitation at this time, as well as visits from Physi