Admission Date:  [**2195-10-24**]       Discharge Date:  [**2195-11-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2121-10-27**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 73-year-old man
with history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, and known two-vessel coronary artery
disease.  The patient is admitted to [**Hospital1 190**] for non ST elevation myocardial infarction.
He was recently admitted to [**Hospital 1121**] Hospital for
treatment of ureteral obstruction due to prostate cancer.  He
underwent uneventful reimplantation of ureters after failed
ureteral stents, one day prior to admission.  He also had a
bilateral orchiectomy one day prior to admission.  He had an
uneventful postoperative period until 5 AM with chest pain,
shortness of breath, and anterior and lateral ST depressions
2 mm to 3 mm in size.  He was noted clinically and
radiographically to be in volume overload.  He was
unsuccessfully diuresed with Lasix.  He was subsequently
transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
further management.

At [**Hospital1 69**] the patient presented
with acute shortness of breath, pink frothy secretions from
the mouth.  He was intubated immediately for impending
respiratory failure.  Chest x-ray revealed diffuse pulmonary
edema.  The patient subsequently ruled in for non ST
elevation MI with CK over 1100.  Significant findings at
catheterization included elevated left ventricular and
diastolic pressure of 28, 90% proximal LAD lesion, 70% mid
left circumflex lesion and no significant right coronary
artery disease.  The patient had his LAD lesion stented.  The
patient was also noted to have significant aortic stenosis
with a valve area of approximately 0.8 cm squared and
gradient of 39 mm.

He was admitted to the CCU for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease, aortic stenosis, diabetes
mellitus type 2 for 20 years, hypercholesterolemia status
post right hip replacement [**2179**], revision in [**2187**],
cholecystectomy, prostate cancer, status post prostatectomy,
XRT, and ureteral stents, hypertension, COPD, chronic renal
insufficiency with baseline creatinine around 2.0.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Allopurinol 150 mg q.d.
2.  Captopril 50 mg b.i.d.
3.  Insulin 70/30, 20 units b.i.d.
4.  Metformin 150 mg b.i.d.
5.  Folate 1 mg q.d.
6.  Triamterene/HCTZ 25/37.5.
7.  Lipitor 20 mg q.d.
8.  Atenolol 25 mg q.d.
9.  Norvasc 2.5 mg q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and lives in a house
with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] quit smoking in [**2154**] and he does not drink
alcohol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Examination on admission revealed the
following:  Temperature 100.6, heart rate 81, blood pressure
114/56, oxygen saturation 100% on assist-controlled
ventilation.  Volume:  750.  Rate:  12.  FIO2 0.8.  PEEP
12.5.  GENERAL:  Intubated man in no distress.  HEENT:  Moist
oral mucosa, no JVD, brisk carotid upstroke.  Carotid murmurs
bilaterally.  LUNGS:  Crackles 75% of the way up bilaterally.
HEART:  Regular rate and rhythm, 2/6 systolic ejection murmur
at the right upper sternal border and [**2-11**] holosystolic murmur
at the apex, radiating to the axilla.  ABDOMEN:  Right
nephrostomy tube, suprapubic tube clear, soft, nontender,
nondistended, normoactive bowel sounds.  EXTREMITIES:  No
edema; 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses.  Right femoral sheath in
place.  NEUROLOGICAL:  The patient was sedated, moving four
extremities spontaneously.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory data revealed the following:
Peak CK 1158, peak MB 36, peak troponin I greater than 58.
White blood count 12.0, hematocrit 30.8, platelet count
137,000, sodium 137, potassium 4.6, chloride 105, total CO2
18, BUN 62, creatinine 3.2, glucose 269, INR 1.1, PTT 30.1.
Liver function tests were within normal limits.

EKG:  Normal sinus rhythm at 71.  Right axis deviation.  New
ST depression V3 through V6.  Right bundle branch block.

Chest x-ray:  Pulmonary edema bilaterally.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  By system.

CARDIOVASCULAR:  Coronaries.  After the LAD stent, the
patient was continued on aspirin, Plavix, and Lipitor for
treatment of coronary artery disease.  He did not have
further chest pain or shortness of breath throughout the
admission.

PUMP:  The patient presented in heart failure.  Swan-Ganz
catheter was placed.  He responded well to Lasix diuresis
with decreased wedge pressure and increased cardiac index.
Echocardiogram on [**10-26**], revealed mildly decreased
left ventricular systolic function with left ventricular
ejection fraction approximately 45% to 50% and inferior wall
hypokinesis.  The patient was restarted on Metoprolol and
Hydralazine when the blood pressure could tolerate it.  These
medications were titrated up to their maximum doses after the
patient became hypertensive post extubation on [**10-28**].
By the time of discharge, the patient's blood pressures had
decreased to be in the range of systolics of 100 to 130 and
diastolics 50 to 70.

BOWELS:  The patient was noted to have severe aortic
stenosis.  The echocardiogram on [**10-26**] revealed aortic
valve area of approximately 0.6 cm squared and a mean aortic
valve gradient of 60 mmHg.  During the course of his
afterload reduction, the patient's mean arterial pressures
were monitored and maintained over 60 mmHg.

Prior to discharge, he was evaluated by the cardiothoracic
surgery service for future aortic valve replacement.  This is
planned for six to eight weeks post discharge.

RHYTHM:  The patient remained in normal sinus rhythm
throughout admission.  The patient had occasional PVCs and
short runs of NSVT within 72 hours post catheterization.

PULMONARY:  The patient was maintained on a ventilator for
the first several days of stay in the ICU.  The oxygenation
improved with diuresis and the ventilator was weaned and
discontinued on [**10-28**].  The patient had interstitial
markings on the chest x-ray.  The patient received a BAL
after he spiked a temperature.  The BAL was consistent with
possible pneumonia.  The patient was treated for the
pneumonia with a course of Ceftazidime and Vancomycin, which
was changed to IV Levofloxacin and the cultures did not grow
organisms.  Post extubation, the patient had good oxygen
saturation and at the time of discharge, the patient was
doing well on room air.

RENAL:  The patient was noted, prior to admission, to have
baseline renal insufficiency and baseline creatinine of
approximately 2.0.  After the catheterization, the patient's
creatinine increased to a level over 3.5.  He was noted by
urine electrolytes to be prerenal.  He also had casts in his
urine suggestive of ATN.  This was felt to be possibly
secondary to a die load or to the hypotension that the
patient had experienced.  Renal ultrasound was obtained to
rule out obstruction in the ureters and bladder.  The
ultrasound revealed no obstruction.  He was noted to drain
preferentially out of his right nephrostomy tube, but that he
did drain out of the suprapubic tube as well.  On the days,
prior to discharge, the patient's creatinine remained in the
range between 2.5 and 3.  He was seen by the renal
consultation service and a workup for cause of acute renal
insufficiency on top of the chronic renal insufficiency was
in progress at the time of discharge.

INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient was noted to have "MRSE"
urinary tract infection at the outside hospital prior to
admission.  He had been started on Vancomycin and a ten-day
course of this was completed at [**Hospital1 188**].  The patient also completed a course of
Ceftazidime/Levofloxacin for possible ventilator-associated
pneumonia as above.

NUTRITION:  While the patient was intubated, he received
orogastric tube feedings.  Post extubation, the patient
initially was not capable of swallowing and the tube feeds
were continued.  When the patient's swallowing function
improved, he was advanced on a diet and at the time of
discharge, the patient was tolerating full solids.

HEMATOLOGY:  The patient was transfused two units of red
cells for hematocrit that reached nadir of 22.6 on [**10-27**].  The hematocrit increased to over 30 and remained over
30 throughout the remainder of his admi