Admission Date:  [**2148-4-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2148-5-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2076-7-26**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Service

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71 year old man with
hypertension and hyperlipidemia, presently with shortness of
breath since 1 AM on the day of admission.  The patient
describes one similar episode two years ago at which time he
was admitted to [**Hospital6 **] and underwent cardiac
catheterization.  At that time he reports being told he
needed coronary artery bypass grafting but declined and he
has remained well at home since then.  He denies any history
of angina, although he does have chronic dyspnea on exertion
and fatigue.  No paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and no
orthopnea until last night when he awoke at 1 AM with
shortness of breath.  Over the next several hours he woke up
with shortness of breath and had to sit up to relieve the
shortness of breath.  Finally he called emergency medical
services at 6 AM and was brought to the Emergency Room.  In
the Emergency Room the patient was found to be tachycardiac
and markedly hypertensive with a systolic blood pressure
greater than 200 and oxygen saturations less than 89% on room
air.  Electrocardiogram initially showed sinus tachycardia
with PR prolongation, evidence of an old inferior myocardial
infarction and a question anterior myocardial infarction with
diffuse ST wave changes.  At that time he was given Aspirin,
Lasix, and Nitroglycerin and subsequent became bradycardia
with a heartrate in the 50s.  Electrocardiogram revealed
sinus bradycardia with deep anterolateral T wave inversions,
initial enzymes were negative.  The patient does not have any
lower extremity edema.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at home include
Lipitor, Zestril, Atenolol and Aspirin.

ALLERGIES:  He has no known drug allergies.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery
disease, status post myocardial infarction, question of an
angioplasty at [**Hospital6 **].  Congestive heart
failure, hyperlipidemia, hypertension.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Denies alcohol use, denies tobacco use.
Unemployed.  Married.  Lives at home.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Afebrile.  Heartrate was 50 to 60.
Blood pressure 123/61, respiratory rate 17 and oxygen
saturation 97% on room air.  General, in no acute distress.
Neurologically appropriate.  Alert and oriented times three.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat, mucous membranes moist.
Oropharyngeal mucosa clear.  Neck, 6 to 8 cm of jugulovenous
distension.  Cardiovascular, regular rate and rhythm.  No
murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Pulmonary, diffuse crackles
bilaterally.  Abdomen, soft, nontender, nondistended with
positive bowel sounds.  Extremities, no edema.  2+ pulses
bilaterally.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission sodium 141, potassium 4.1,
chloride 110, carbon dioxide 26, BUN 20, creatinine 1.4,
glucose 133, creatinine kinase 224, MB 5, troponin less than
.03.  White blood count 12.3, hematocrit 40, platelets 203,
PTT 13.1, INR 1.1.  Chest x-ray shows congestive heart
failure without cardiomegaly.  Electrocardiogram, sinus
rhythm, Qs in 2 and F, ST elevation in 3 and F, ST depression
in V5 and 6.  Echocardiogram done after admission shows an
ejection fraction of 25% with global hypokinesis, posterior
basal inferior akinesis, 3+ mitral regurgitation with an
eccentric jet.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medicine
Service, seen by the Cardiology Service and referred for
cardiac catheterization.  On [**5-1**], the patient was
brought to the Catheterization Laboratory.  Please see the
catheterization report for full details and summary.  This
catheterization showed an ejection fraction of 25%, left main
with mild disease, left anterior descending with 50% proximal
and 80% mid lesion.  Large diagonal with an 80% lower pole
stenosis, the left circumflex was occluded, mid distal with
an 80% obtuse marginal 1 and right coronary artery was
occluded, mid distal and fills by collaterals.  Following
cardiac catheterization, Cardiothoracic Surgery was
consulted.  The patient was seen by Cardiothoracic Surgery
and was accepted for coronary artery bypass grafting.  On
[**5-3**], he was brought to the Operating Room at which time
he underwent coronary artery bypass grafting times five.
Please see the operative report for full details.  In
summary, the patient had coronary artery bypass graft times
five with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending, saphenous vein graft to the diagonal and a Y
graft to obtuse marginal 1 and obtuse marginal 3 and a
saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery.  He
tolerated the surgery well and was transferred from the
Operating Room to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.  At
the time of transfer, the patient had a mean arterial
pressure of 48, a central venous pressure of 12, he was
atrioventricularly paced at 84 beats/minute.  He had
Neo-Synephrine at 0.3 mcg/kg/min and Propofol at 50
mcg/kg/min.  The patient did well in the immediate
postoperative period.  His anesthesia was reversed and the
sedation discontinued.  The patient moved all extremities,
although at that time he was unable to follow commands.  He
became very anxious and hypertensive.  Therefore he was
resedated.  On postoperative day #1, the patient was
hemodynamically stable.  The sedation was again weaned.
Following the discontinuation of his sedation, the patient
awoke at which point he was agitated and thrashing about in
bed, unable to follow commands.  Therefore he was resedated
with Precedex and another attempt was made to awaken and wean
the patient while on a Precedex drip.  Despite the Precedex,
the patient again awoke thrashing in bed, unable to follow
commands with a systolic blood pressure in the 170s and
heartrate in the 110s.  He was again started on Propofol and
resedated.  On postoperative day #2 another attempt was made
to extubate the patient.  He remained sedated with a Precedex
infusion.  His blood gases were adequate with 5 of pressure
support and 5 of positive end-expiratory pressure and he was
successfully extubated.  Following extubation, the patient
remained hemodynamically stable and his sedation was weaned
to off.  Following the weaning of the patient's sedation he
did continue to be somewhat agitated, consistently following
commands.  At that time psychiatry was consulted as was the
stroke service.  It was felt that the patient had a likely
toxic metabolic encephalopathy and he was treated as such.
Over the next several days, the patient remained in the
Intensive Care Unit while a toxic metabolic workup was being
completed.  He remained somewhat lethargic with periods of
confusion and agitation.  He could not consistently follow
commands.  From a cardiopulmonary standpoint he remained
hemodynamically stable with a productive cough and sating 95%
on nasal cannula.  Head computerized axial tomography scan
was done which showed old white matter disease with no new
infarctions.  On postoperative day #6, it was decided that
the patient was stable and ready to be transferred to the
floor where he could undergo further postoperative care and
cardiac rehabilitation.  Once on the floor, the patient's
activity level was increased with the assistance of the
nursing staff and physical therapy.  He continued to be
somewhat confused neurologically although much less agitated
and not combative.  The patient remained on the floor for
several days showing gradual improvement.  He continued to
followed by the Neurology Service who felt that this course
was consistent with a toxic metabolic encephalopathy.  The
patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout this
period.

On postoperative day #13, it was felt that the patient was
stable and ready to be transferred to the rehabilitation
center for continuing postoperative care and cardiac
rehabilitation.  At the time of that decision the patient's
physical examination was as follows:  Vital signs,
temperature 98, heartrate 87 sinus rhythm, blood pressure
142/82, respiratory rate 20, oxygen saturation 96% on room
air.  Weight preoperatively was 89.9 kg and the day prior to
discharge is 86.1 kg.  Laboratory data revealed wh