Admission Date:  [**2110-10-6**]     Discharge Date:  [**2110-10-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2044-8-19**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:   This is a transfer from [**Hospital 8**] Hospital
for a catheterization.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 66 year old
female with a past medical history of hypercholesterolemia
and 50 years of tobacco use who presented to the outside
hospital with intense substernal chest discomfort for greater
than four hours and chest heaviness, after she vomited.  It
did not radiate.  She had mild diaphoresis.  At the outside
hospital, EKG showed impressive anterior and lateral ST
elevations.  The patient was given aspirin, beta blocker,
Nitroglycerin and heparin with relief of her symptoms.  She
was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for
catheterization.

Angiography revealed 20% ostial left middle coronary artery
lesion, 99% mid left anterior descending lesion involving a
diagonal branch and ulcerated 70% right coronary artery
lesion.  At this time, a stent was placed in the mid left
anterior descending with restoration of flow, TIMI-II flow in
the diagonal 2 branch.  The patient was transferred to the
Intensive Care Unit pain free.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Increased hypercholesterolemia.
2.  Breast cancer status post right mastectomy 24 years ago.

ALLERGIES:   None.

MEDICATIONS:  None.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   Positive for tobacco, one pack per day
times 50 years.  No alcohol.  Lives with husband, two sons,
daughter, granddaughter and great-grandchildren.  She is
retired.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Mother with history of myocardial
infarction at age 50 years old.  Father with history of
diabetes mellitus.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   Vital signs were 98.2 F.; rate 86;
pressure 126/80; 97% on two liters nasal cannula.  Alert and
oriented pleasant female in no acute distress.  HEENT:
Anicteric.  Mucous membranes were moist.  Neck with no
jugular venous pressure or bruit auscultated.  Cardiovascular
is S1, S2 normal.  No murmurs, rubs or gallops; regular rate.
Respiratory is clear to auscultation anteriorly and
laterally; scattered expiratory wheeze.  Abdomen soft,
nontender, nondistended.  Extremities with no cyanosis,
clubbing or edema.

LABORATORY:  EKG obtained at outside hospital was sinus
tachycardia, 116, with left axis deviation; [**Street Address(2) 2915**]
elevations in I, AVL and 5 to [**Street Address(2) 53659**] elevations in
V2 through V6.

LABORATORY:  On admission, white blood cell count 12.3,
hematocrit 39.9, platelets 209, INR 1.1.  Chem 7 with 135
sodium, potassium 4.3, BUN and creatinine 13 and 0.5.

Liver function enzymes were normal.

CK peak at 1255.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit for management of acute anterolateral myocardial
infarction status post left anterior descending stent
placement.
1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient continued on 18 hours of
Integrilin post catheterization and was started on aspirin
325, Plavix 75 and beta blocker titrated up per blood
pressure.  EKG post catheterization showed persistent ST
elevation with assumption of probable significant
micro-vascular disease in addition to the patient's known
left anterior descending stenosis.  Continued with statin
therapy in lieu of normal liver function enzymes.

Echocardiogram was obtained to assess pump function status.
In catheterization, wedge was 22, right atrial pressure 12.
Echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 25% with
small apical left ventricular aneurysm and apical akinesis.

A heparin drip was initiated at the termination of
Integrilin.  An ACE inhibitor was also initiated secondary to
decreased remodeling.  The patient continued on heparin
throughout her hospital course and transitioned to Coumadin 5
mg p.o. q. day with goal INR of 2.0 to 3.0.

At the time of discharge, the patient's blood pressure was
normotensive on Zestril 2.5 q. day, Toprol XL, as well as
aspirin and Plavix. For her rhythm, the patient was continued
on Telemetry without dysrhythmias noted.

The patient will follow-up with Electrophysiology Service for
signal average ECG following large interior lateral
myocardial infarction.

Due to persistent ST elevation and right coronary artery
stenosis of 70%, the patient returned to catheterization on
hospital day



Dictation ended.


                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 2057**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 972**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2110-10-12**]  11:29
T:  [**2110-10-12**]  17:10
JOB#:  [**Job Number 53660**]
