Admission Date:  [**2104-1-5**]     Discharge Date:  [**2104-1-11**]


Service:  [**Doctor Last Name **] Medicine Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 89-year-old female
with COPD (requiring home oxygen and nebulizers) and a
history of multiple exacerbations, found down in bathroom
with a respiratory rate of 6.  Per family, patient was noted
to have progressive respiratory difficulty one week prior to
admission.  She responded well to a nebulizer at the time.
Family members increased O2 requirement from 1-2 liters by
nasal cannula and patient seemed to be doing well.

On the day of admission, she was found down in the bathroom
with a respiratory rate between [**5-13**].  EMS arrived and placed
an oral airway and bagged the patient.  Noted the entitle CO2
to be approximately 60 and the decision was made to intubate
the patient.  The patient received Versed and propofol for
sedation; subsequently systolic blood pressure dropped to the
30s.  She was treated at the time with an IV fluid bolus and
dopamine, and responded well.  At this time, her vitals were
temperature of 97.0, blood pressure 130/40, respiratory rate
of 20, and O2 saturation at 99%.

In the ED, her temperature was 97.2, pulse of 84, blood
pressure 140/30, respiratory rate of 12, and O2 saturation of
100%.  Lungs were noted to be rhonchorous with crackles
bilaterally.  An ABG after starting ventilator showed a pH of
7.24, pO2 of 274 and a pCO2 of 74.  Head CT showed no acute
hemorrhage.  Chest x-ray showed only emphysematous changes.
Cardiac enzymes showed a troponin leak.  EKG was unchanged
from prior.  Blood cultures and urine cultures were obtained.

In the MICU, the patient was maintained on sustained
mechanical ventilation, started on IV Solu-Medrol,
ipratropium, and albuterol nebulizers, and levofloxacin.  She
failed several attempts of weaning off the ventilator, was
successfully extubated on the day of transfer to ICU (ICU day
#5).  She was initially receiving tube feeds, but upon
transfer was tolerating p.o. well.  Given her history of
SIADH, she was on free water restriction.  Sodium initially
was at 132, by transfer day, had increased to 136.

Upon transfer to the [**Doctor Last Name **] Medicine Firm, the patient
denies any fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, chest
pain, shortness of breath, or abdominal pain.  She states
that her breathing is back to baseline and is tolerating p.o.
well.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. COPD:  Emphysema.  Pulmonary function tests on [**2103-1-7**] show a FEV1 of 0.64 (52%), FVC 0.74 (37%).  Chronic CO2
retainer, with a baseline pCO2 between 70-80.  Requires home
oxygen.
2. SIADH:  Thought to be secondary to COPD.  Usually treated
with free water restriction.
3. Seizures secondary to hyponatremia.
4. Question of CAD:  Multiple admissions for acute
respiratory failure secondary to COPD, had shown troponin
leaks.  An echocardiogram in [**2103-1-7**] showed left
ventricular systolic function is hyperdynamic with an
ejection fraction of more than 75% with mild left atrial
dilatation.  Have never undergone a stress test.  She is on
medical management.
5. Hypertension.
6. Colon cancer status post resection in [**2097**].
7. Dementia.
8. Degenerative joint disease.
9. Iron deficiency anemia.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient lives at home with four children.
Smoking history of 20 pack years, quit four years ago.
Denies any alcohol use.  Active second-hand [**Year (4 digits) **] from her
children.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

ALLERGIES:  Doxycycline.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Detrol 1 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Flovent prn.
4. Albuterol prn.
5. Combivent prn.
6. Multivitamins one tablet p.o. q.d.
7. Tums 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8. Vitamin D 400 units p.o. q.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  In general, she is a
female appearing her stated age, laying in bed comfortable in
no apparent distress.  Very cooperative.  Vitals show a
temperature of 97.1 with a pulse of 77 beats per minute and
regular, blood pressure of 154/62 with a respiratory rate of
22, and O2 saturation of 92% on 3 liters nasal cannula.  Her
weight is 108 pounds.  She is normocephalic, atraumatic with
pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Extraocular movements are intact.  Red reflex
is present, anicteric sclerae.  Oropharynx is clear.  Dry
mucous membranes.  Her neck is supple with no nodules,
lymphadenopathy, or tenderness.  Trachea was midline.  No
JVD.  Carotid pulses were 2+ with no bruits.  Thyroid was not
palpable.  Lungs show decreased breath sounds throughout with
poor air movement.  There is scattered inspiratory crackles
throughout.  No wheezes or rhonchi noted.  Her heart was
regular, rate, and rhythm with a normal S1, S2, no murmurs,
rubs, or gallops.  Her abdomen was soft, nondistended, and
nontender with normoactive bowel sounds and no bruits.  It
was tympanic to percussion with no masses or ascites noted.
Liver edge was palpable on inspiration, it was soft.  Spleen
tip was unpalpable.  No costovertebral angle tenderness was
noted.  Her infraumbilical midline scar is well healed.  Both
lower extremities were cool to touch with no clubbing,
cyanosis, or edema.  Her dorsalis pedis pulse was 1+, PT
pulse was unpalpable.  She had no jaundice or rashes.
Patient was alert and oriented to person, place, and time.
Patient made good eye contact throughout the interview.
Cranial nerves II through XII were intact.  Had normal tone
throughout.  She had 3/5 strength and appropriate for age.
Reflexes were 1+ at the knees and ankles.  Her sensory
examination was intact to vibration at hallux bilaterally.
She had normal finger-to-nose testing, appropriate to age,
and gait was not assessed.

LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Sodium of 136, potassium
3.8, chloride 95, bicarb of 39, BUN of 12, creatinine of 0.3,
glucose of 108.  White count of 10.9, hemoglobin of 10.6,
hematocrit of 33.2, and platelets of 268.  Calcium was 7.9,
magnesium was 1.8, and phosphate was 2.0.  Blood cultures
showed no growth to date.  Urine cultures showing no growth
to date.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:
1. Acute respiratory failure secondary to COPD exacerbation:
Upon presentation to the floor, the patient had been started
on a prednisone taper at 40 mg taking her down to 0 in two
weeks.  She was receiving O2 via nasal cannula with an O2
saturation goal between 90-95% given her history of chronic
CO2 retention.  Her nebulizers were continued and spaced to
q.4-6h.  She was continued on levofloxacin for a total of 10
days.  Upon discharge, the patient stated that she was
returning back to baseline.

2. Question of coronary artery disease:  The patient did have
a positive troponin while in-house of 3.2.  She was started
on a beta blocker in the ICU.  However, due to her severe
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and per PCP's
recommendation, it was discontinued on hospital day #3.  She
was continued on aspirin and an ACE inhibitor.

Because of her debilitated state and severe chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, she would not be a candidate
for any cardiac intervention, so the plan was made to
medically manage her to the best possibility as noted
previously.

3. Syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic
hormone:  The patient's sodium was followed while in-house.
Fluid restrictions were maintained.  Her sodium improved
while in-house and was normal at the time of discharge.

4. Hypertension:  The patient's hypertension was stable on
ACE inhibitors throughout the hospitalization.

5. Dementia:  Her dementia remained at baseline throughout
her hospital stay.

6. Hyperglycemia:  Likely secondary to steroid taper.  She
was started on regular insulin-sliding scale.  At the time of
discharge, her sugars have been well managed.

7. Anemia:  Patient's hematocrit levels were followed and
they remained stable throughout the hospitalization.

8. Prophylaxis:  The patient received prophylaxis,
subcutaneous Heparin for deep venous thrombosis, with
ranitidine for gastrointestinal ulcer prophylaxis, and
continued on calcium and vitamin D for steroid-induced
osteoporosis prophylaxis.

9. Physical Therapy:  Evaluated patient, ambulated well,
desatting