Admission Date:  [**2122-7-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2122-7-31**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 80 year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
prior left anterior descending artery stent, congestive heart
failure with a known ejection fraction of 60 to 65% by
echocardiogram one year ago, diabetes, chronic renal
insufficiency, hypertension, who was admitted with a several
week history of substernal intermittent chest pain both at
rest and with exertion for which he is taking multiple
sublingual nitroglycerin per day. The pain typically resolves
with one to two sublinguals. This morning the patient
experienced his usual substernal chest pain which was
unresolved after two sublingual nitroglycerin. The patient
had no associated shortness of breath, diaphoresis or
lightheadedness.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Notable for a chronic dry, nonproductive
cough.  The patient denies having recorded fevers at home. No
abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting. The patient has had some
chronic diarrhea. No bright red blood per rectum, no melena.
The patient's current chest pain is equal to his anginal
equivalent. The patient after taking the three sublingual
nitroglycerin at home without relief the patient called EMS.
En route he got an aspirin and three additionally sublingual
nitroglycerin.

In the Emergency Department his blood pressure was 200/100
with a heart rate of 100, respiratory rate of 20, temperature
101.0 F. His O2 saturation was initially unrecordable.
Initial ABG revealed a PaO2 42 which improved with diuresis
and Morphine to PaO2 of 79. Both on 100% nonrebreather.

EKG initially showed sinus tachycardia at 111 beats per
minute with a right bundle branch block which was new. Repeat
EKG showed 1 to [**Street Address(2) 1766**] depressions in leads V4 through V6 as
well as aVL.

In the Emergency Department the patient was given 40 mg of IV
Lasix, 5 mg of IV Lopressor and started on a Heparin drip.

Chest x-ray was suggestive of CHF with question of a right
base infiltrate.  The patient had one episode of bilious
emesis times one after getting Nitroglycerin. He was
subsequently started on Nitroglycerin drip and his blood
pressure was noted to drop to the 80s systolic, even at two
units per hour. The Nitro drip was shut off. The patient got
an additional dose of Morphine and Zofran. He was also given
500 mg of IV Levaquin and 800 mg of IV Flagyl after blood and
urine cultures were sent. The patient's labs were notable for
elevated white blood cell count, bicarbonate of 15 with an
anion gap of 18 and a lactate of 3.6.

On arrival to the floor the patient was complaining of
persistent [**3-29**] substernal chest pain and was made pain free
with upward titration of the Nitroglycerin drip and
additional 2 mg of IV Morphine.

Review of systems reveals that the patient has baseline
dyspnea on exertion and baseline rest angina as documented.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diabetes with hemoglobin A1C of 9.6. The patient is
poorly compliant with finger sticks per his wife. Hemoglobin
A1C was recorded on [**2122-3-20**].
3.  Elevated cholesterol.
4.  Peripheral vascular disease status post AAA repair,
status post femoral popliteal bypass surgery, status post
bilateral toe amputations.
5.  Chronic renal insufficiency with prior baseline
creatinine of 2 to 3 several months ago.
6.  Coronary artery disease status post recent stent to the
left anterior descending coronary artery.
7.  Congestive heart failure thought to be diastolic
dysfunction with prior ejection fraction of 60 to 65 % by
echo in [**2121-3-20**].

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1.  Digoxin 0.125 mg po q day.
2.  Lasix 40 mg po q day.
3.  Lopressor 50 mg po bid.
4.  Lipitor 10 mg po q day.
5.  Isordil 20 mg po bid.
6.  Prn Nitroglycerin.
7.  Regular insulin approximately 7 units q A.M. and NPH
insulin 55 units q A.M.

ALLERGIES:  The patient with no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient admits to half a pack per day of
smoking times 60 years although he is not currently using. No
current alcohol or drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY: Notable for coronary artery disease in his
mother and father.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs on arrival to the floor
temperature 99.4 F, pulse 84, blood pressure 150/112,
saturation 93 to 97% on two liters nasal cannula.

Physical exam showed an elderly patient awake, alert and
oriented, in no obvious distress. HEENT - slightly dry oral
mucosa. Neck - notable for jugular venous distention to just
below the angle of the jaw. Cardiovascular - regular rate and
rhythm, distal heart sounds, no appreciable murmurs. Lungs -
decreased breath sounds at the bases bilaterally with trace
bibasilar crackles. Abdomen is soft, nontender. Abdomen is
soft, nontender with partially reproducible midline hernia
which is also nontender. There are active bowel sounds
throughout. Extremities - no significant lower extremity
edema. The patient was chronic venous stasis / post surgical
skin changes with dopplerable lower extremity pulses. The
rectal examination was guaiac negative per the ED exam.

INITIAL LABORATORY DATA:  White blood count 19.5, hematocrit
28.5, platelet count 288,000. INR 1.3, sodium 137, potassium
5.4, chloride 104, bicarbonate 15, BUN 66, creatinine 4.5,
glucose 294. Urinalysis was negative.  Digoxin level was 0.3,
lactate was 3.6. LFTs were within normal limits. Magnesium
1.7, calcium 8.6, phosphate 6.2, albumin 3.6. CK peaked at
187 with Troponin of 48.7.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular - The patient with a known history of
coronary artery disease with known two vessel disease and
recently stented left anterior descending coronary artery
presenting with unstable angina with refractory chest pain.
EKG initially showed new right bundle branch block
alternating with left bundle branch block. The patient had
evidence of lateral ST depressions with normal QRS
morphology. The patient was ultimately made pain free with IV
Nitroglycerin. He was started on Heparin which he received
for approximately 48 hours. His CK is peaked at 187 with a
maximum Troponin of 48.7. He was not started on 2B3 inhibitor
given severe renal failure.

Initial chest x-ray revealed congestive heart failure. The
patient was initially severely hypoxic but responded to
diuresis and Morphine with resolution of his chest pain
symptoms the patient remained essentially pain free without
complaints of chest pain or dyspnea throughout the remainder
of his hospital stay. He received some additional gentle
diuresis while in the Intensive Care Unit to which he
responded readily.  He required no further diuresis and had
clear lung exam throughout the remainder of his hospital
stay. His O2 saturations gradually improved with treatment of
his congestive heart failure and IV antibiotics for potential
pneumonia. The patient was also continued on his Lipitor for
his history of hypercholesterolemia.

On [**2122-7-28**] the patient had an echocardiogram which revealed
ejection fraction of 20% down from prior echo showing normal
systolic function. He also had multiple new wall motion
abnormalities most notable for inferior and lateral akinesis,
as well as RV systolic dysfunction and new 3+ mitral
regurgitation. The patient also with severe anterior
hypokinesis. TTE showed no evidence of valvular vegetations.
However given history of positive blood cultures, fever, new
conduction abnormalities and new mitral regurgitation, the
patient underwent a transesophageal echo to further rule out
endocarditis. Again there was no evidence of valvular
vegetations or abscess.

Given renal failure the patient was not continued on his Ace
inhibitors.  He was started on Isordil and Hydralazine for
after load reduction and these were gradually titrated up
throughout the remained of his hospital stay. Prior to
discharge we discussed repeat cardiac catheterization after
the resolution of the patient's infection for diagnosis and
possible therapeutic intervention. Given the possibility that
the patient might end up on dialysis following cardiac
catheterization, the patient was opposed to undergoing
cardiac catheterization at this time. He will be set up with
Cardiolog