Admission Date:  [**2110-10-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2110-10-31**]


Service:  Medicine

CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Bright red blood per rectum and lightheadedness.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 87 year old
man in a rehabilitation facility, who was observed to have
bright red blood per rectum.  He was seen to have a large
bowel movement with bright red blood as well as blood clots.
The patient felt dizzy and his blood pressure was taken as
90/40.  He was given 250 cc of normal saline and transferred
to [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 3867**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **], where his hematocrit
was found to be 19.9.  His baseline hematocrit is around 29.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Dementia.  2.  Frequent falls.  3.
Coronary artery disease, status post coronary artery bypass
grafting in [**2105**] and myocardial infarction in [**2093**].  4.
Congestive heart failure with a left ventricular ejection
fraction of 25% in [**2104**].  5.  Intermittent atrial
fibrillation, not anticoagulated because of fall risk.  6.
Anemia.  7.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.  8.  Hypertension.  9.
Hyperlipidemia.  10.  Hypothyroidism.  11.  Most recently
admitted from [**10-16**] for diuresis for
congestive heart failure exacerbation.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o.q. Monday,
0.25 mg p.o.q. Wednesday, Lasix 80 mg p.o.b.i.d.,
spironolactone 25 mg p.o.q.d., Cozaar 50 mg p.o.b.i.d.,
glyburide 5 mg p.o.b.i.d., aspirin 81 mg p.o.t.i.d., Isordil
40 mg p.o.t.i.d., Colace, metformin 1,000 mg p.o.b.i.d., iron
sulfate 160 mg p.o.q.d., Lipitor 10 mg p.o.q.d., Casodex
(bicalutamide) 50 mg p.o.q.d., Synthroid 0.15 mg p.o.q.d.,
ranitidine 150 mg p.o.q.d., Toprol XL 50 mg p.o.q.d.,
hydralazine [**2119-11-22**] mg p.o.q. a.m./afternoon/p.m.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On physical examination on admission,
the patient was afebrile with a pulse of 72 to 80, blood
pressure 116/34, respiratory rate 15 and oxygen saturation
100%.  General:  Pale elderly gentleman in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation, fundi with sharp disks,
no hemorrhage, oropharynx without discharge, mucous membranes
dry.  Neck:  Supple, no bruits.  Chest:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally, no wheezes, rales or rhonchi.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2,
no murmur.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended, positive
bowel sounds.  Rectal:  Normal tone, dark stool, guaiac
positive.  Musculoskeletal:  5/5 strength in upper and lower
extremities.  Neurologic examination:  Alert and oriented
times three, poor short term memory.

Physical examination on discharge showed crackles to one-half
way up lungs, left greater than right, and 1+ edema to
mid-calves.  Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm.
Nasogastric lavage:  Negative for blood.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission white blood cell count was 11.5
with 79.8 neutrophils, 0 bands, 12.6 lymphocytes, 5.9
monocytes, 1.1 eosinophils and 0.6 basophils, hemoglobin 6.7,
hematocrit 19.9, platelet count 329,000, sodium 132,
potassium 5, chloride 96, bicarbonate 29, BUN 63, creatinine
1.1, prothrombin time 12.9 and INR 1.1.  Serial CK were 60,
45 and 24.  [**2110-10-31**]:  White blood cell count 14.2,
hemoglobin 11.8, hematocrit 33.4.  [**2110-10-30**]:  White
blood cell count 13, hemoglobin 11.3, hematocrit 33.9.
[**2110-10-29**]:  White blood cell count 12.4, hemoglobin
12.1, hematocrit 36.4.  [**2110-10-28**]:  White blood cell
count 11.7, hemoglobin 12.1, hematocrit 35.4.  [**2110-10-27**]:  White blood cell count 14, hemoglobin 12.1, hematocrit
34.8.  [**2110-10-26**]:  White blood cell count 12.2,
hemoglobin 9.8, hematocrit 28.3. [**2110-10-31**]:  Sodium
138, potassium 3.9, chloride 103, bicarbonate 25, BUN 23,
creatinine 1.1 and glucose 129.  [**2110-10-29**]:
Helicobacter pylori antibody positive.  [**2110-11-1**]:
Urinalysis (straight catheterization), greater than 50 red
blood cells, greater than 50 white blood cells, few bacteria,
no epithelial cells.

RADIOLOGIC DATA:  Tagged red blood cell scan, [**2110-10-24**]:  Blood flow images show increased diffuse activity in
the left side of the abdomen, delayed blood pool images
obtained over one hour show no increased activity in the
region of the gastrointestinal tract, delayed blood pool
images obtained over a third half-hour show a brief focus of
increased activity in the left mid-abdomen, the activity
moves up into the left and diffuses out over one-half hour;
impression, (1) increased diffuse activity over the left side
of the abdomen could represent a region of hyperemia which
can be seen with diverticulitis, (2) brief focus of activity
over the left mid-upper quadrant of the abdomen could
represent a small bleed which disperses in the bowel, its
location is difficult to identify but could represent
bleeding in the transverse colon.

[**2110-10-26**] chest x-ray:  Increased pulmonary
vascularity with associated perihilar haziness in a bilateral
lower lobe interstitial pattern; there are probably small
pleural effusions bilaterally; impression, congestive heart
failure with interstitial edema and probable small bilateral
pleural effusions.  [**2110-10-31**], chest x-ray
(unofficial read):  Left lower lobe infiltrate, small nodular
opacity in the right lung at level between fifth and sixth
ribs.

[**2110-10-28**], small bowel follow-through:  Several air
filled loops with small and large bowel throughout the
abdomen; the patient was given barium to drink and this
reached the cecum over three to four hours; no intrinsic mass
effect or filling defects are seen over 1 cm in size; the
terminal ileum was normal in appearance; impression, no
obvious mass or mass effect is identified.  [**2110-10-27**], upper gastrointestinal endoscopy:  Reducible small
sized hiatal hernia in the esophagus, stomach with diffuse
continuous erythema of the mucosa with no bleeding noted in
the antrum; these findings are compatible with gastritis;
duodenum, multiple cratered nonbleeding ulcers ranging in
size from 2 to 5 mm were found in the duodenal bulb.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient felt asymptomatic during his
hospital stay.  He himself did not complain of shortness of
breath, weakness or dizziness, although he is a poor
historian.  He was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit initially, where two large bore intravenous lines were
placed.  He received three times daily hematocrit checks and
was transfused with four units of packed red blood cells,
with appropriate hematocrit bump to 29.

The patient was then transferred to the floor and given two
more units.  His hematocrit was 31.5 afterwards.  He had no
further transfusions and his hematocrit was 34.4 on
discharge.  His stool was guaiac negative on discharge.  His
antihypertensive medications, besides losartan, were held for
most of the hospitalization because of the concern of risk
for hypotension, especially given his likely recent bleed.
He was restarted on Toprol XL 50 mg daily and Lasix 80 mg
twice a day on [**2110-10-30**].  He had a systolic blood
pressure of approximately 130 and pulse approximately 75 on
these medications.  He will be discharged with his baseline
antihypertensive regimen, which includes Isordil 40 mg three
times a day and hydralazine [**2119-11-22**] mg in the morning, noon
and evening, with hold parameters applied.  He usually had a
regular rate and rhythm but occasionally was in atrial
fibrillation.  As evaluated on previous admission, the
patient is a poor candidate for anticoagulation given that he
has a history of frequent falls.

On [**2110-10-27**], the patient underwent an upper
gastrointestinal endoscopy which showed multiple, 2 to 5 mm,
nonbleeding duodenal ulcers.  Colonoscopy was attempted on
[**2110-10-27**], but failed because the patient had too
much residual stool despite having consumed one gallon of
GoLYTELY.  A colonoscopy was successfully performed after he
drank another gallon.  The colonoscopy revealed nonbleeding,
grade II, internal hemorrhoids and diffuse continuous
melanosis.  Otherwise, he had a normal colonoscopy with no
evidence of bleeding.  A sm