Admission Date:  [**2123-10-25**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2049-4-18**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74 year-old
male with a past medical history significant for coronary
artery disease (single vessel disease of RCA, status post
stent in [**Month (only) 404**] of 199), congestive heart failure class 3,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and asthma, and
prostate cancer, presenting with shortness of breath over the
past few days.  The patient was seen at [**Hospital 12986**] Clinic, where
he was noticed to have pulmonary rales, lower extremity
edema, after which patient was referred to the emergency
department for evaluation of congestive heart failure.  The
patient stated that he had not taken his medication (the
patient had been on Lasix and Digoxin among several other
medications) for the past few days as he had been out of
them.  In the emergency department, the patient was noted to
have an oxygen saturation of 82 percent on 5 liters nasal
cannula oxygen.  The patient was normally on 3 liters of
oxygen at home.  The patient's oxygen saturations had
improved to 96 percent on 100 percent nonrebreather mask.  In
the emergency department, the patient was also noted to be in
sinus tachycardia at 124 beats per minute.  The patient was
given 40 mg of Lasix intravenous twice in the emergency
department, after which he put out 1200 cc of urine.  For his
rate, the patient was given 5 mg intravenous diltiazem, after
which his rate decreased into the 80s.  The patient had also
admitted to an episode of chest pain the night prior to
presentation.  The patient stated that the chest pain was
mild, radiating to bilateral shoulders, with relief with one
sublingual nitroglycerin.  The patient stated that he had
always got chest pain off and on of similar nature.  The
patient denied diaphoresis, nausea or vomiting.  The patient
did admit to occasional light headedness.

The patient admitted to a stable two pillow orthopnea.
Patient denied paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  The patient
admitted to increased leg swelling and shortness of breath at
rest.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1) Class 3 congestive heart failure.
2) Coronary artery disease.  Status post stent to RCA in
[**2121-1-31**].  3) Asthma.  4) Chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.  Home oxygen dependent on 3 liters nasal
cannula at home.  5) Dilated cardiomyopathy with an ejection
fraction of less than 20 percent.  6) Pulmonary hypertension.
7) History of prostate cancer.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Albuterol 2 puffs q.i.d., aspirin
325 mg p.o. q.d., Carvedilol 6.25 mg p.o. q.d., Cozaar 50 mg
p.o. b.i.d., Digoxin .25 mg q.d. p.o. q.h.s., Lasix 20 mg
p.o. q.d., ibuprofen 400 mg p.o. b.i.d., ipratropium 2 puffs
p.o. q.i.d., sublingual nitroglycerin, oxygen 3 liters nasal
cannula, Ultram 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.  The patient was not
entirely cooperative during history taking.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone.  The patient state
that he takes all his medications by himself.  Patient
admitted to an 80 pack per year history of smoking.  Quit two
years ago.  The patient admitted to a history of alcohol
abuse, but now admitted only to social drinking.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Blood pressure 110/80,
pulse 82, respirations 23, oxygen saturation 89% on 50
percent face mask.  General:  the patient is a 74 year-old
male in mild respiratory distress.  Head and neck examination
normocephalic, atraumatic, pupils equal, round, reactive to
light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Anicteric.  Jugular
venous pressure 10 cm.  Cardiac examination:  S1 and S2
audible, irregularly irregular, tachycardic.  No murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  Pulmonary examination:  crackles bilateral
lower [**2-3**].  No wheezes or rhonchi.  Abdomen soft, nontender,
nondistended, good bowel sounds in all four quadrants.  No
masses.  Questionable hepatomegaly.  Extremities:  1+ ankle
edema bilaterally, +2 dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial
pulses bilaterally.  Neurologically alert and oriented times
three.  Cranial nerves 2 through 12 intact.  Presents 4 out
of 5 bilateral upper and extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY FINDINGS ON ADMISSION:  CBC revealed WBC
of 6.1, hemoglobin 17.3, hematocrit 49.8, platelets are 85.
Chem-7 revealing sodium of 138, potassium of 5.7 (hemolyzed),
chloride of 100, bicarbonate of 25, BUN of 11, creatinine
0.7, glucose 150.  PT 16.6, PTT 33.8, INR of 1.8.  Chest
x-ray showing no effusions or infiltrate.  There was
engorgement of the pulmonary vasculature at the upper lobe.
There were curly B lines especially prominent in the right
lung field.  Echocardiogram done in [**2121-1-31**] showed
severe global left ventricular dysfunction.  There was
abnormal septal motion consistent with conduction delay.
There was no thrombus.  Right ventricular function was
severely depressed.  There was no aortic regurgitation with
mild mitral regurgitation.  The impression was severe
biventricular dysfunction.  Electrocardiogram showed atrial
flutter at 124 beats per minute.  There was left axis
deviation.  Poor R wave compression.

The assessment at this point was that this was a 74 year-old
male with a past medical history significant for coronary
artery disease, congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease and asthma presenting with worsening
shortness of breath, episodes of intermittent chest pain, and
atrial flutter.  Chest x-ray revealed acute pulmonary edema.
The patient had not been taking his medication for the past
three days and had been reporting increasing leg edema since.
The patient was presumed to be have an episode of congestive
heart failure exacerbated by lack of medication use as well
as his arrhythmia.

#1:  Pulmonary.  A) Congestive heart failure.  The patient
received Lasix 40 mg intravenous twice in the Emergency Room,
to which he put out 1200 cc of urine.  The plan was to
continue to bolus the patient with Lasix with the goal of
having him be 2 liters negative over each 24 our period.  The
patient was continued on Digoxin and his oxygen saturations
were monitored.  Over the 24 hour period after admission, the
patient had become 4 liters negative secondary to the Lasix
bolussing in the emergency department.  As a result, the
patient had developed a severe contraction alkalosis
secondary to overaggresive diuresis with bicarbonate of 39
(bicarbonate 25 on admission).  The plan was to hold off on
Lasix diuresis and to continue to monitor the patient's fluid
status.  The patient's shortness of breath gradually improved
throughout the hospital course, and he stated that his
shortness of breath had markedly improved.  The patient's
oxygen requirement decreased to 2 liters nasal cannula from
10 liters nasal cannula on transfer to the floor.  The
patient was ultimately placed back on his outpatient Lasix
regime of 20 mg p.o. once a day.  Reassessing the patient
revealed that he had decrease in his lower extremity edema
and a decrease in his pulmonary rales, but a persistently
elevated jugular venous pressure.  The patient was rebolussed
with 40 mg of intravenous Lasix, after which he once again
was 4 liters negative in terms of his fluid balance.  B)
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: The patient was
continued on his albuterol, Atrovent inhalers.  Secondary to
the patient's atrial flutter with rapid rate, the albuterol
inhaler was discontinued.  The patient's oxygen requirements
decreased from 10 liters oxygen nasal cannula on transfer to
the floor to 2 liters nasal cannula.  The patient was
saturating 90 to 97 percent on 2 liters nasal cannula.

#2:  Cardiovascular.  A) Rhythm.  The patient was in atrial
flutter with variable conduction with heart rate in the 120s.
The patient's beta blocker was initially discontinued as the
patient had a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease.  The patient was given 5 mg intravenous diltiazem
for his elevated heart rate, after which his heart rate
decreased into the 80s.  However, the patient's heart rate
then rebounded back up into the 120s and 130s.  The patient
was then started on Cardizem CD 120 mg p.o. q.