Admission Date:  [**2158-7-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2158-8-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2094-3-2**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 64-year-old female
with myelodysplastic syndrome and history of cerebrovascular
accident in [**2154**], who was in her usual state of health until
approximately three days prior to admission, when her
daughter noticed that she seemed more lethargic than usual.

On the morning of admission, her mother complained to her of
being awakened by acute chest pain "like knives in her
chest".  In addition, her mother described feeling nauseated,
lightheaded, dizzy, and weak.  She denied experiencing
diarrhea, vomiting, or any change in appetite.  At this time,
she denied experiencing coughing, dysuria.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs: Temperature
99.3, pulse 123, blood pressure 90/50, respirations 24, and
oxygen saturation 94% on 2 liters nasal cannula.  In general,
the patient was resting comfortably in bed in no acute
distress.  Her oral examination was remarkable for very poor
dentition.  She had a periodontal gum lesion on the left
upper gum, with swelling on the hard palate directly opposite
to the lesion on the other side of her teeth.  She had tender
submandibular lymphadenopathy.  Her lung examination revealed
crackles at the bases bilaterally.  Her cardiac examination
revealed tachycardia but was otherwise a regular rhythm.  Her
abdominal examination was benign and her neurologic
examination was remarkable for a left eye abduction and was
otherwise intact.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  ........... showed no growth,
and an HSV-PCR analysis returned negative.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  ........... or fluid overload.  The patient
showed clinical improvement over two days in the Medical
Intensive Care Unit and returned to the Medicine Floor on
hospital day number ...........  ........... precautions.
Received 2 units of packed red blood cells, and received four
bags of platelets prior to lumbar puncture.




                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1197**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 51598**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2158-8-3**]  11:22
T:  [**2158-8-5**]  13:16
JOB#:  [**Job Number 97462**]
