Admission Date:  [**2114-4-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2114-4-19**]


Service:  [**Company 191**] MEDICI

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   This is a 79 year old woman
with a history of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular
rate status post pharmacologic conversion and status post
pacemaker for tachy-brady syndrome with congestive heart
failure, diastolic dysfunction, and poorly controlled
hypertension, who presented with shortness of breath.  The
patient reports a three to four week history of "a cold" with
cough productive of yellow thick sputum, occasionally blood.
She admits to fevers, chills, which have been intermittent
over the past few weeks but she did not take an actual
temperature.  No night sweats.  She does admit to shortness
of breath, especially with some severe spells over the last
week.  This most recent one prompted an Emergency Room visit.
She also notes decreased appetite, possibly change in weight,
but her clothes are looser than they had been.  She reports
good compliance with her home anti-hypertensives, but does
not measure her blood pressures.

She says her diabetes mellitus is borderline diabetes
mellitus but not on any medications nor does she check
fingersticks at home.  She denied any chest pain but was with
tachycardia on arrival at the Emergency Room.  She received a
dose of Lopressor and Diltiazem in the Emergency Room with
good response.  Also, she received 20 of intravenous Lasix,
Nitroglycerin, digoxin and then had a CT scan of her chest
done to evaluate for shortness of breath.  She was noted to
have some lymphadenopathy and diffuse nodules worse on the
left than on the right.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Congestive heart failure with diastolic dysfunction.
2.  Diabetes mellitus.
3.  Coronary artery disease status post an myocardial
infarction.
4.  Hypertension with history of uncontrolled blood pressures
in the 200s over 100s.
5.  Hyperlipidemia.
6.  Atrial fibrillation status post tachy-brady syndrome
status post pacemaker.
7.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
8.  Arthritis.
9.  Recent echocardiogram in [**Month (only) **] showed an ejection
fraction of 60% with mild to moderate mitral regurgitation
and aortic regurgitation, prolonged E wave deceleration,
impaired relaxation, mild pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q. day.
2.  Lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q. day.
3.  Amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q. day.
4.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day.
5.  Toprol XL 100 mg p.o. q. day.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   She lives with her son.  She is divorced.
She works as a cook.  She quit tobacco in the 70s but had a
previous 20 pack year history.  Alcohol with history of heavy
alcohol abuse but quit 30 to 40 years ago and no other
illicit drugs.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Includes mother who died of breast cancer
and an uncle with cancer.  Father with history unknown.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   On admission, temperature 99.8 F.;
pulse of 129; blood pressure 166/71; respiratory saturation
of 92% on room air; respiratory rate of 20.  In general, she
is an elderly woman sitting up, tripoding with moderate
respiratory distress.  HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.
Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light on the left;
right side with clouding of her cornea.  Neck was supple.
Cardiovascular is tachycardic.  Pulmonary examination with
bilateral coarse expiratory wheezes and diffuse crackles
throughout, left greater than right.  Abdomen was soft,
nontender, nondistended, active bowel sounds.  Extremities
with no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Neurological
examination:  She was alert, oriented and appropriate, and
moving all extremities.

LABORATORY:  On admission, white blood cell count 13.6,
hematocrit 34, platelets of 209 and differential with 70%
neutrophils, 15% bands, 12% lymphs.  Hematocrit 139,
potassium 3.7, chloride 105, bicarbonate 18, BUN 31,
creatinine 1.7, gap of 16.  Glucose of 192.

CK of 240; CK MB of 5, troponin of 0.01.  Blood gas with pH
of 7.33, pCO2 of 33, pO2 of 63, lactate of 5.

On admission EKG she had atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular response, diffuse ST depression, and then
follow-up EKG had sinus tachycardia at a rate of 112, normal
axis, normal intervals.  The ST changes were resolved.

A CT scan showed no evidence of pulmonary embolism, extensive
hilar lymphadenopathy and multiple foci.  Areas of nodular
density consistent with metastatic foci.  Positive post
obstructive pneumonia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   This is a 78 year old woman with history
of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response,
tachy-brady syndrome, status post pacemaker, with congestive
heart failure, diastolic dysfunction, who presented with
shortness of breath.  She was initially admitted to the
Intensive Care Unit for better monitoring.

1.  SHORTNESS OF BREATH:  The patient was stable oxygen wise
and was treated for pneumonia empirically with initially
Ceftazidine and then switched over to Levofloxacin to
complete a two week course; currently being discharged on day
seven of two weeks.  The day after admission the patient had
a bronchoscopy done to evaluate airway disease.

She had evidence of diffuse narrowing of her lower airways
without occlusion.  No endobronchial lesions were noted.  No
source of hemoptysis, but she had minimal non-purulent
secretions.  She did have three sets of samples sent of for
pathology and cytology which eventually, on the day prior to
discharge, returned as highly suspicious for non-small cell
carcinoma.  The patient was advised of these findings and
referred to the Thoracic Multi-Disciplinary Oncology Center
for further follow-up and further staging.

The patient is aware of diagnosis as is her family were
advised of condition and the patient defers treatment and
plans for treatment to her physicians as she feels they know
more appropriately what is involved.  When asked about her
wishes, she also defers to her son.  They are prepared to
continue with the treatment and arrangements have been made
to set up initial visit on day of discharge with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].

Otherwise, the patient's shortness of breath was likely
exacerbated by a post obstructive pneumonia.  Eventually,
Flagyl was added on for better anaerobic coverage and the
patient is to complete a ten day course of this.  She has
seven more days to go to complete those.

Her shortness of breath improved throughout her stay.  She
continued to use her incentive spirometer and eventually was
weaned off nasal cannula and saturating well even with
ambulation.  She did not require oxygen for the last four
days of her admission.

2.  ESCHERICHIEAE COLI BACTEREMIA AND URINARY TRACT
INFECTION: The patient had a few blood cultures positive for
E. coli at time of admission as were her urine cultures.  It
was likely that the patient had a urinary source of her
urinary tract infection but her E. coli was pan sensitive and
the patient was continued on Levofloxacin for her urinary
tract infection and her E. coli bacteremia.  Eventually, her
blood cultures remained negative and she will just complete
her course for pneumonia on the Levofloxacin, also covering
for her bacteremia and urinary tract infection.

3.  ATRIAL FIBRILLATION:  The patient remained in sinus
throughout the rest of her stay.  She was continued on her
home regimen of Diltiazem and Lopressor.  She was not on
Coumadin secondary to fall risk and a question of compliance,
and otherwise remained stable and asymptomatic.  The
patient's elevated troponins on admission were likely
secondary to the demand ischemia secondary to her atrial
fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.

4.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient was stable and
continued on her metoprolol although her aspirin was held for
procedures and can be restarted once her work-up for her lung
cancer is completed.

5.  DIABETES MELLITUS:  She was overall well controlled on a
sliding scale, however, her fingersticks remained between 112
and 130 during the course of her stay with minimal sliding
scale requirements.  She will continue at home off
medications but advised to continue with diabetic diet.  This
can continue to be foll