Admission Date: [**2152-10-20**]        Discharge Date: [**2152-11-2**]

Date of Birth:  [**2091-1-16**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 61 year old female was
admitted to an outside hospital one day prior with the
complaints of intermittent exertional chest pain times three
to four days.  She complained also of diaphoresis and
shortness of breath associated with chest pain.  She denies
worsening paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, edema,
nausea, vomiting or syncope.  Her cardiac enzymes were
negative at the outside hospital.  A spiral CT was negative
for pulmonary embolus.  Stress test in [**2152-6-29**] showed
normal ejection fraction and no inducible ischemia.  She was
transferred to the [**Hospital1 69**] for
catheterization which showed two vessel coronary disease with
an ejection fraction of 60 percent, left main 50 percent
lesion, left anterior descending coronary artery 80 percent
lesion, circumflex 40 percent, 95 percent lesion of the
second obtuse marginal and the right coronary artery was
normal.  The patient was referred to Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] [**Name (STitle) **] for
coronary artery bypass grafting.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hypertension.
2. Hyperlipidemia.
3. Carotid artery stenosis.
4. Asthma.
5. Noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
6. Fatty liver.
7. Anxiety.
8. History of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.
9. Gallstones.


PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Is remarkable only for hysterectomy.

ALLERGIES:  She was allergic to aspirin which caused
gastrointestinal upset and Percocet which has caused her to
hallucinate.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Diovan 80 mg P.O. daily, Klonopin 0.5
mg P.O. twice a day PRN,  Celexa 40 mg P.O. daily while at
the outside hospital.  At home she was taking Lexapro.
Plavix 75 mg P.O. daily.  Lasix dose was [**10-20**] in the
morning.  Fosamax 1 tablet P.O. every Sunday.  Singulair 10
mg P.O. daily.  Multivitamin 1 tablet P.O. daily.  Metformin
500 mg P.O. B.I.D, Lescol 80 mg P.O. once daily and calcium 1
tablet P.O. daily.  Patient also took vitamin D.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient lives with her husband.  She works
at home.  Is active.  Had no history of tobacco use and used
alcohol only rarely.  She has a positive family history for
coronary artery disease with the mother having a myocardial
infarction in her 40s and her bother dying of myocardial
infarction at 53.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  She admitted to a 20 pound weight gain
over the past month and was sleeping very poorly at the time.
Her height was 5, 1.  Her weight was 160 pounds.  Blood
pressure 133/80, heart rate 82, respiratory rate 22,
saturation 95 percent on room air.  She was lying flat in bed
on examination in no apparent distress.  She was alert and
oriented times three and appropriate.  She had carotid bruits
bilaterally.  Her lungs were clear bilaterally.  Her heart
was regular rate and rhythm with S1, S2 tones and no murmur,
rub or gallop.  Abdomen was soft, obese, nontender,
nondistended with positive bowel sounds.  Her extremities
were warm and well perfused with no edema or varicosities.
On the right she had 2 plus radial, 1 plus dorsalis pedis and
1 plus posterior tibial pulses.  On the left 1 plus radial, 1
plus dorsalis pedis, and 1 plus posterior tibial pulses.

PREOPERATIVE LABORATORY DATA:  White count 7.1, hematocrit
37.1, platelet count 185,000.  PT 13.9, PTT 23.8, INR 1.2.
Sodium 135, potassium 4.4, chloride 99, bicarb 23, BUN 14,
creatinine 0.7 with a blood sugar of 260, anion gap 17, total
bilirubin 0.5, amylase 57, alkaline phosphatase 100, ALT of
96, AST 89, albumin 4.0.  HBA1C 9.7 percent, significantly
elevated.  Preoperative carotid ultrasound study showed less
than 40 percent right internal carotid artery stenosis and no
left internal carotid artery stenosis.  Preoperative
electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 103 with
occasional ventricular ectopy, diffuse nonspecific ST-T wave
abnormalities.  Please refer to the official report on
[**2152-10-21**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient's Plavix was discontinued.  Patient
was referred to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and over the course of the next
couple of days as the carotid ultrasound was done the patient
was followed by cardiology daily in preparation for her
surgery on Monday morning.  Patient was seen by cardiology
daily and was seen also by the case manager and on [**10-23**] the
patient underwent coronary artery bypass grafting times three
with a left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending coronary artery, a vein graft to the second obtuse
marginal and a vein graft to the diagonal which is a Y graft
off the saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal.  Patient
was transferred to cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit in
stable condition on a Neo-Synephrine drip at 0.24 mcg per
kilograms per minute and a propofol drip at 10 mcg per
kilogram per minute.  On postoperative day one the patient
had been extubated in the early morning hours, was in sinus
rhythm at 97 with a blood pressure of 97/61, saturating 97
percent on 3 liters of nasal cannula with a cardiac index of
2.29.  She was alert and oriented times three.  Heart was
regular rate and rhythm.  She had decreased breath sounds
bilaterally.  Otherwise lungs were clear.  Abdomen was soft,
nontender.  Chest tubes were in place. She had 1 plus
peripheral edema bilaterally.  Lasix intravenous diuresis was
begun.  Swan-Ganz was discontinued.  Neo-Synephrine wean was
begun.

Postoperative laboratories as follows:  White count 17.4,
hematocrit 32.4, platelet count 207,000.  Potassium 4.7, BUN
8, creatinine 0.6 with an INR o 1.2.  Patient needed for Neo-
Synephrine for tone on the following morning, postoperative
day two remained at 1.0.  Beta blockade was held.  Neo-
Synephrine was continued.  The following day the blood
pressure was 110/64 with a heart rate of 111.  Patient was
saturating 94 percent on 5 liters nasal cannula.  Patient
remained tachycardic.  Examination was otherwise
unremarkable.  The Neo-Synephrine wean continued.  Chest
tubes were discontinued.  Foley was discontinued.  Hematocrit
rose to 28.3.  Creatinine was stable at 0.6.  Patient was
eligible to go to the floor as soon as the Neo-Synephrine was
weaned off but was allowed to be out of bed in the room.  On
postoperative day three chest tubes were discontinued.  Neo-
Synephrine was off.  Patient was in sinus rhythm in the 90s.
Blood pressure 95/68.  Examination was unremarkable.
Incisions were clean, dry and intact with 1 plus peripheral
edema.  Creatinine stabilized at 0.5, hematocrit 27.4,
potassium 3.8, beta blockade was begun with Lopressor 25 mg
P.O. B.I.D  Chest x-ray was repeated, Lasix diuresis
continued.  On postoperative day four the patient had a 10
beat run of supraventricular tachycardia in the morning which
was monomorphic.  No chest pain.  Patient had been
transferred out to the floor.  Patient continued with
perioperative Kefzol and continued to get Combivent and
Singulair to help her for her asthma.  Her pacing wires were
discontinued.  She was encouraged to do aggressive pulmonary
toilet, cough and deep breath.  She was placed on Kefzol for
her sternum which had minimal erythema.  She continued to
work on the floor with physical therapy.  Patient had some
complaints of palpitations overnight but maintained a good
blood pressure of 104/58.  On postoperative day five she was
in the sinus rhythm in the 90s with blood pressure of 116/65.
She had no erythema of her sternal wound.  Otherwise her
examination was unremarkable with trace peripheral edema.
She was stable and afebrile with a maximum temperature of
99.8.

On postoperative day seven the patient had no overnight
events but was still desaturating with ambulation.  Her
saturations were 93 percent on 2 liters nasal cannula.  Her
hematocrit was 27, her potassium 3.7, and magnesium 1.8.  Her
oral Metformin was started again.  She had a few bibasilar
crackles, still had 1 plus peripheral edema.  Also the
patient had an episode of rapid atrial flutter today with a
heart rate of 150 and a stable blood pressure.  Patient was
give 5 mg intravenous of Lopressor twice and magnesium 2
grams and patient converted to sinus rh