Admission Date:  [**2178-8-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2178-8-13**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 85 year old female
with a history of chronic pancreatitis secondary to ethanol
use and peptic ulcer disease, status post distal diskectomy,
admitted to Surgical Intensive Care Unit [**2178-8-5**]
from [**Hospital **] Hospital where she presented with nausea,
vomiting, diarrhea and epigastric pain.  The patient
presented to [**Hospital1 **] at 9:45 PM, [**2178-8-4**] with a
history of weakness, nausea, vomiting and creamy diarrhea
times one to two weeks with poor p.o. intake.  The patient
reports a one month history of diarrhea.  No fever or chills.
The patient reports epigastric pain, 6 out of 10, no
radiation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Chronic pancreatitis diagnosed in
[**2175**] with pancreatic pseudocyst drained [**2176-6-2**]; 2.
Peptic ulcer disease, status post partial distal diskectomy;
3.  Atrial fibrillation; 4.  Gout; 5.  Hyperlipidemia; 6.
Ethanol abuse.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at home include -
1.  Lasix; 2.  Diovan; 3.  Propranolol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Positive tobacco history, none currently.
Positive heavy ethanol use in the past, unclear use now.  The
patient is married and lives with her husband.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Non-contributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission temperature was 96.3,
pulse 86, blood pressure 126/54, respirations 18, sating 100%
on 100% face mask.  The patient was on Dopamine 7.5 mcg/min.
General:  Frail elderly female in mild distress secondary to
abdominal pain.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Positive
icterus, oral mucosa slightly dry.  Oropharynx clear.  Neck:
Supple, jugulovenous distension to jaw line at 45 degrees.
No lymphadenopathy.  Cardiac:  Regular rhythm, no murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  Lungs:  Decreased breathsounds with mild
rhonchi.  Abdomen:  Old scar noted.  Normoactive bowel
sounds.  Soft, moderate tenderness in the epigastrium,
positive guarding.  Distention of abdomen, but soft without
evidence of peritoneal signs or rebound.  Extremities, warm
with no edema.  Rectal, poor tone, guaiac negative.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory studies on admission revealed
white blood cell count 10.6, hematocrit 25.3, platelets 310,
INR 1.1, PTT 25.5, sodium 138, potassium 4.1, chloride 115,
bicarbonate 12, BUN 51, creatinine 1.6, glucose 151.  ALT 43,
AST 72, alkaline phosphatase 140, total bilirubin 1.2,
amylase 27, lipase 52, calcium 7.6, magnesium 1.3, phosphorus
3.5.  Arterial blood gases, 7.29, 28, 68, lactate 1.3.

Computerized tomography scan:  Small amount of fluid in
retroperitoneum.  Mildly thickened small bowel loop,
bilateral pleural effusions, positive pleural plaques.

Ultrasound:  No dilated common bile duct, cholelithiasis but
no evidence of cholecystitis.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Abdominal pain - The patient's
abdominal pain with nausea, vomiting and diarrhea was felt to
be consistent with chronic pancreatitis flare versus
gastroenteritis.  There was no evidence of cholecystitis or
common bile duct dilatation on right upper quadrant
ultrasound and aside from a few loops of thickened bowel on
abdominal computerized tomography scan, abdominal findings
were unremarkable.  The patient's initial acidosis were felt
secondary to fluid losses from diarrhea and improved with
volume resuscitation.  The patient's abdominal examination
steadily improved and her liver function tests remained
unremarkable throughout the hospital stay.  At the time of
discharge the patient was without nausea, vomiting or
diarrhea.

2.  Cardiology - The patient's cardiac enzymes were cycled
with a troponin peak of 0.14.  Cardiology was consulted who
recommended a transthoracic echocardiogram and Persantine
MIBI with gentle diuresis for elevated jugulovenous pressure
and initiation of Lopressor.  The patient's transesophageal
echocardiogram on [**2178-8-6**] showed an ejection
fraction of 60% with 1+ mitral regurgitation, 2+ tricuspid
regurgitation, severe pulmonary artery and systolic
hypertension.  The patient's troponin leak is likely
secondary to strain and further workup not pursued at this
time.  The patient will require a Persantine MIBI scheduled
as an outpatient through her primary care physician.

3.  Respiratory - The patient developed a cough with
increased respiratory rate into the 30s on [**2178-8-8**].
A chest x-ray at that time showed left upper lobe and lower
lobe opacities consistent with congestive heart failure
versus pneumonia as well as a bilateral pleural effusion.
The patient was diuresed with Lasix over 2.3 liters over the
next 36 hours with no improvement in respiratory symptoms.
Follow up chest x-ray showed an increase in the size of the
left pleural effusion and multifocal bilateral pulmonary
infiltrates.  The patient was begun empirically on
Levofloxacin and Flagyl and was transferred to the Medicine
Intensive Care Unit for further management of suspected
nosocomial pneumonia.  The patient had sputum culture taken
on [**2178-8-6**] and [**2178-8-8**] which grew
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Vancomycin
was added upon transfer on [**2178-8-9**] to the Medicine
Intensive Care Unit.  The patient will continue
Ciprofloxacin, Flagyl and Vancomycin for a total of 14 day
course for nosocomial pneumonia.  The patient underwent a
thoracentesis on [**2178-8-10**] which gram stain showed no
polymorphonucleocytes and no microorganism.  Total protein
1.3, albumin less than 1, glucose 138, LDH 81, preliminary
probe fluid culture was negative.  Based on these results
pleural effusion was felt to be a transudate likely secondary
to congestive heart failure and the patient was gently
diuresed during the course of the hospital stay.  The patient
was noted to have copious secretions throughout length of
stay in the Medicine Intensive Care Unit requiring frequent
suctioning.  She had a weak cough and was unable to bring up
secretions on her own without chest physical therapy.

3.  Fluids, electrolytes and nutrition - The patient was
noted to be hypernatremic with sodium 149 at time of transfer
to the Medicine Intensive Care Unit.  Free water deficit was
1.6 liters.  The patient was repleted with 1/2 normal saline.
The sodium had stabilized at the time of discharge.  Sodium
was 139.  Metabolic acidosis was noted on admission to
Surgery Intensive Care Unit, resolved with closing anion gap
and normalization of PH.  The patient had speech and swallow
evaluation on [**2178-8-11**] given concern of possible
aspiration as a contributor to her current pneumonia.
Bedside swallowing evaluation showed that the patient
appeared to aspirate water but refused to take more than one
bite or one sip.  Her lack of cooperation, lack of desire to
eat and drink and her waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**] level of alertness
placed her at significant nutritional risk, even if she could
swallow safely.  Therefore, the patient's Dobbhoff tube was
placed and tube feeds started.  The patient will require
further evaluation once strength increases to evaluate
whether she is able to take p.o. once she is over her acute
illness.

5.  Anemia - The patient was noted to have decreased
hematocrit on transfer to the Medicine Intensive Care Unit,
although this was within her baseline ranges of 25 to 35.
The patient was guaiac negative.  Iron studies suggestive of
anemia of chronic disease.  We continued to monitor her
hematocrit through her hospital course.  It remained stable
and at the time of discharge was 28.2.  The patient will
require further monitoring of her hematocrit as an outpatient
to ensure that it remains stable.

6.  Delirium - The patient was noted to have waxing and
[**Doctor Last Name 688**] mental status throughout the course of her hospital
stay although it gradually improved as we avoided sedatives.
The delirium was felt likely secondary to acute infection
overlying the existing underlying dementia, possibly from
prior heavy ethanol use.  The patient's mental status
stabilized.  No further workup was performed at this time.

7.  Renal failure - The patient's elevated creatinine noted
on admission to Surgery Intensive Care Unit gradually
returned towards normal