Admission Date:  [**2130-2-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2130-2-15**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84-year-old
male with moderate dementia, 3-vessel coronary artery disease
(under medical management), and a recent admission to [**Hospital1 1444**] on [**2130-2-5**] (status
post a motor vehicle accident complicated with a myocardial
contusion with stunned right ventricle, pelvic fracture) who
was managed medically with ACE inhibitor and aspirin therapy
and discharged to rehabilitation.

The patient was involved in a motor vehicle accident on
[**2-5**] and transferred from an outside hospital for
hypotension secondary to a myocardial contusion.  Some
concern for acute inferior myocardial infarction was raised,
and the patient was taken to emergent cardiac catheterization
after having an evaluated creatine kinase of 600 and a
troponin of 47.

Cardiac catheterization revealed severe 3-vessel disease and
severe aortic stenosis.  It was determined to continue the
patient on medical management without intervention secondary
to his baseline dementia and baseline poor functional status.
The patient was continued on aspirin therapy, and started on
an ACE inhibitor.  However, he was not placed on a beta
blocker secondary to occasional sinus pauses.

Once the patient was hemodynamically stable, he was
discharged to rehabilitation on [**2130-2-11**].

In the evening of [**2130-2-11**], the patient was found to
be in acute respiratory distress.  He was brought emergently
to an outside hospital and was admitted to the Intensive Care
Unit with a questionable diagnosis of pneumonia and/or
congestive heart failure.  The patient was started on CPAP
for hypoxia.  Dopamine was initiated but later discontinued
secondary to atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular
response.  He underwent resuscitation with intravenous
fluids, and a Neo-Synephrine drip was begun.

A Cardiology consultation was obtained, who placed a
pulmonary artery catheter; the initial recordings of which
demonstrated a right atrial pressure of 15, right ventricular
pressure of 60/15, pulmonary artery pressure of 60/28 with a
mean of 38, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 30,
pulmonary artery saturation was 45, cardiac index of 1.

Inotropic support was considered with dobutamine.  Lasix was
also attempted with minimal urine output as a result.  After
further discussion between the family, Cardiology, and the
patient's primary care physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] decision was made to
send the patient back to the [**Hospital1 188**] for further management and evaluation.

At that point, the patient demonstrated an elevated creatine
kinase to 1347 with a troponin of 79.  The initial plan was
for aggressive therapy with a re-look cardiac catheterization
and consideration of intra-aortic balloon pump.  At the time
of presentation, the patient was do not resuscitate; however
not do not intubate.

On initial presentation to [**Hospital1 188**], the patient complained of bilateral knee pain as well
as pelvic pain.  The patient denied any chest pain or
shortness of breath.  He was able to state that he was at
[**Hospital1 **].   He complained of a cough that was
dry and nonproductive and had no further complaints.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  History of angina.
2.  History of dementia.
3.  Cardiac catheterization on [**2130-2-6**]
demonstrating 3-vessel coronary artery disease and severe
aortic stenosis.
4.  Status post motor vehicle accident on [**2-5**]
complicated with myocardial contusion and pelvic fracture.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  Flagyl 500 mg p.o. q.8h.
4.  Heparin drip.
5.  Neo-Synephrine drip.

ALLERGIES:  The patient reported that DEMEROL and CODEINE
cause nausea and vomiting.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient currently lives with his wife in
the [**Location (un) **] Retirement Center.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Blood pressure
was 103/62, heart rate was 87, respiratory rate was 16,
oxygen saturation of 93% on a 50% face mask.  Pulmonary
artery pressure was 61/31, cardiac output was 2.6, cardiac
index was 1.29, systemic vascular resistance was 1323.  In
general, the patient was lying flat in bed, face mask was in
place.  In no acute distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat revealed eyes were open, mouth was dry.  Neck revealed
right cordis/Swan in place.  Cardiovascular revealed a
regular rate and rhythm.  Normal first heart sound and second
heart sound.  A 3/6 systolic ejection murmur at the right
upper sternal border.  Chest revealed decreased breath sounds
at the bilateral bases.  The abdomen had positive bowel
sounds, soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Extremities
revealed 2+ edema to the thighs bilaterally.  Positive
ecchymoses on the bilateral knees and left ankle.
Neurologically, answered questions fully.  Alert and oriented
times two.  Moved all extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories at
the time of admission revealed creatine kinase from the
outside hospital was 1347, troponin from the outside hospital
was 67.  White blood cell count was 9.3, hematocrit was 31.6,
platelets were 233 (with a differential of 76 neutrophils,
11 lymphocytes, and 5 monocytes).  PT was 17.6, PTT was 150,
INR was 2.1.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram revealed a normal
sinus rhythm at 88 beats per minute, leftward axis, biphasic
T waves, Q waves present in V1 through V4, and T wave
inversions in leads II, aVF, V3 through V6, with poor R wave
progression.

A chest x-ray from the outside hospital revealed decreased
lung volumes, right middle lobe and right lower lobe
infiltrates, with small bilateral pleural effusions.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 80-year-old gentleman
with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
myocardial infarction, status post motor vehicle accident on
[**2-5**], who was initially treated for right ventricular
failure in the setting of myocardial contusion and discharged
to rehabilitation two days prior to presentation.

The patient returned to [**Hospital1 69**]
after suffering an acute episode of respiratory distress;
currently maintained on CPAP as well as a Neo-Synephrine
drip, and a pulmonary artery catheter [**Location (un) 1131**] suggested
cardiac shock.

CARDIOVASCULAR:  Pump:  The patient's initial low values of
cardiac output and cardiac index were consistent with
cardiogenic shock.  Given the patient's elevated creatine
kinases and troponins, it was felt likely secondary to an
acute myocardial infarction.

Therefore, the patient was sent emergently to cardiac
catheterization for attempt at revascularization and
consideration of placement of an intra-aortic balloon pump.
In the meantime, the patient was continued on inotropic
support.

Cardiac catheterization revealed a 40% stenosis in the left
main, an 80% proximal stenosis of the left anterior
descending artery with diffuse mild-to-moderate disease in
the remainder of the vessel, and poor visualization of the
left circumflex which was known to have an 80% distal
stenosis, as well as a totally occluded right coronary artery
which was filled with collaterals.  The proximal left
anterior descending artery lesion was treated with
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and an
intra-aortic balloon pump was successfully inserted in place.

During this time, the patient was weaned off of
Neo-Synephrine and started on a Milrinone drip.  However,
still required a certain amount of Neo-Synephrine for blood
pressure maintenance.  In addition, the patient was started
on amiodarone with a bolus in an effort to keep the patient
in a normal sinus rhythm.  The patient was also continued on
heparin as well as [**Last Name (LF) 13860**], [**First Name3 (LF) **] post cardiac
catheterization procedure protocol.

The patient's elevated cardiac enzymes peaked on the
following day with a high of 1491 with a troponin of greater
than 50.  Cardiac catheterization had revealed 3-vessel
disease too diffuse for intervention, more than a
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty to the left
anterior descending artery.  