Admission Date: [**2165-4-29**]        Discharge Date: [**2165-5-14**]

Date of Birth:  [**2117-4-3**]        Sex:  M

Service:


PRESENT ILLNESS:  Upper GI bleeding.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is the first admission to
[**Hospital1 **] [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Known firstname **] [**Known lastname 32978**] who is a 48-year-old
male, who works as an interior design contractor, who has a
past medical history significant for AIDS. The patient states
that he was feeling well and was in his usual state of health
until 3 weeks prior to admission when he developed what he
thought was the flu which was manifested by chills, myalgias,
and night sweats. During this time the patient denied nausea,
vomiting, or abdominal pain but did note a decreased
appetite. The patient took occasional ibuprofen for relief
and noted improvement in his symptoms until 2 days prior to
admission when he began to notice bright red blood per
rectum. The patient states he first noticed normal stool
streaked with blood early in the morning on [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1017**].
Over the course of the day the patient noted increasingly
bloodier bowel movements approximately every 2 hours that
eventually developed into bright red blood per rectum. On the
following day the patient noted continued blood per rectum.
In addition, the patient noted increased shortness of breath
and dyspnea with walking across the room which prompted the
patient to call 911, and he was brought to the [**Hospital1 346**] for evaluation and treatment of his
bleeding.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The patient has a past medical history
significant for AIDS with a recent CD4 count of 53 and a
viral load of 84,000; anal condyloma; hypothyroidism;
depression; and chronic back pain. The patient notes a
hospitalization in [**2159**] for anemia, during which time an
upper endoscopy demonstrated 2 bleeding esophageal ulcers and
a gastric mass with an indeterminate biopsy that was presumed
to Kaposi sarcoma.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  The patient's past surgical history
is significant only for fulguration of anal condyloma.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Medications include Dapsone, Kaletra,
Videx, Viread, Diflucan, Synthroid, AndroGel, and Wellbutrin.
Of note, the patient has been poorly compliant with his
antiretroviral regimen secondary to his recent illness.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Social history includes a 18-pack-year
history of smoking; 9 years x 2 packs per day. The patient
states that he quit smoking 7 weeks ago. He also states that
he engages in social drinking on the weekends, though he
admits to a remote history of alcohol dependency. The patient
states that he is a homosexual but denies recent anal
intercourse.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Insignificant for bleeding disorders, GI
cancers, or vascular malformations.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On initial examination his temperature
was 103.2, with a pulse of 130, the blood pressure was
114/60, a respiratory rate of 16, oxygen saturation of 97% on
2 liters. His mucous membranes were dry. Cardiovascular exam
revealed tachycardia with a normal S1 and S2 without murmurs.
Mild crackles were noted on auscultation of the lungs at the
left base without dullness to percussion and normal tactile
fremitus.

LABORATORY DATA:  His initial laboratory studies showed a
white blood cell count of 9.1, a hematocrit of 25.3, and a
platelet count of 182. Coag's were a PT of 13.1, a PTT of
23.5, INR of 1.1. Electrolytes showed a sodium of 155,
potassium of 3.4, chloride of 103, bicarbonate of 22, BUN and
creatinine were 26/1.0.

BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE:  A nasogastric tube was placed, and
lavage revealed only bilious return without evidence of
occult blood. A chest x-ray on admission showed left lower
lobe pneumonia. A CT scan was obtained but showed no
pathology. The patient was admitted to the internal medicine
service and transfused 2 units of packed red blood cells. On
hospital day 1, the patient was transfused a total of 4 units
of blood. His hematocrit's remained between 18 and 25. A
bleeding scan on hospital day 2 showed bleeding in the left
upper quadrant, and a flexible sigmoidoscopy showed blood
clots without any source of bleeding. An EGD showed a fibrous
bridge which was noted at 35 mm from the incisors, indicative
of an esophageal ulcer now healed. A small punctate erosion
in the stomach body was cauterized, and erythema was noted in
the stomach body/antrum and patchy areas of the fundus
consistent with gastritis. However, these findings did not
account for the patient's large gastrointestinal bleed. The
patient was kept on supportive therapy by the medical service
during this time. Angiography showed no extravasation of
contrast, and as such a source was not found.

On hospital day 3 the patient's hematocrit dipped to 16.3,
and the patient was transfused with an additional 6 units of
packed red blood cells. The patient underwent a push
endoscopy which showed erosion in the stomach body, blood in
the 4th part of the duodenum and jejunum, and angioectasia's
in the 4th part of the duodenum. These were treated with
thermal therapy. An angiography on hospital day 3 showed
active extravasation involving the proximal jejunum and just
beyond the ligament of Treitz, and the patient continued to
bleed. He continued to have melanotic stools on the following
- hospital day 4 - and required several units of blood
products, bringing the total of 21 units of packed red blood
cells on hospital day 4.

On hospital day 4 the patient was seen by the surgical
service, and at the time the decision was made to take the
patient to surgery for definitive surgical treatment of his
upper GI bleeding. The patient underwent an exploratory
laparotomy and excision of the proximal jejunum as well as
retroperitoneal exploration. Please see the operative note
for details of this procedure. The patient tolerated the
procedure well and was transferred to the floor in stable
condition. The postoperative course was remarkable only for a
prolonged postoperative ileus and postoperative oliguria. It
was noted that after surgery the patient remained massively
edematous and required continuous fluid boluses to maintain
urine output. This continued up until postoperative day 6,
when the patient required transfer to the intensive care unit
for intense monitoring. A central venous line was placed, and
the central venous pressure was monitored during this time.
The patient remained in the ICU only for a brief amount of
time, during which his hematocrit's were noted to be stable
and his urine output continued to improve as he began to
diurese third-space fluid that he accumulated after receiving
many units of blood products preoperatively and crystalloid
solution intraoperatively and postoperatively. The patient
was able to pass flatus after some time postoperatively, and
he diet was advanced as tolerated. The patient's central line
was removed as was his Foley catheter and was noted to be
stable and able to ambulate well. His antiretroviral regimen
was restarted prior to his discharge.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  The patient was discharged home on
postoperative day 12.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  The patient was discharged on his
preadmission regimen of antiretroviral therapy as well as
prophylaxis therapy.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  Specific instructions to follow up
with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in 2 weeks.



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], MD [**MD Number(2) 11162**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 32979**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2165-8-6**] 13:59:17
T:  [**2165-8-6**] 14:57:13
Job#:  [**Job Number 32980**]
