Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 60907**]
Admission Date: [**2150-4-6**]
Discharge Date: [**2150-4-22**]
Date of Birth:  [**2109-6-6**]
Sex:  M
Service:  TRA


ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:  Multiple trauma.

Mr. [**Known lastname 1557**] was a 40-year-old male who was brought into the
emergency room on the day of admission after a motorcycle
crash. He had been helmeted and crashes his motorcycle on the
highway. Subsequently, he stood up and was struck by an
oncoming car. This car did not stop at the scene, but
pedestrians phoned EMS. He was med flighted to the [**Hospital1 18**] and
en route became hypotensive and was intubated. Also en route,
he had angiocath decompression of his left chest, and he was
felt to have a pneumothorax.

On arrival to the trauma bay, his hemodynamics were unstable,
and he was tachycardic and hypotensive. He had bilateral
chest tubes placed. He had an obvious right femur deformity
and pelvic instability on exam. He had gross hematuria upon
placement of the Foley. He had his pelvis wrapped in a sheet
for stability, and with ongoing hemodynamic instability and
the requirement of blood transfusions and crystalloid, he had
a diagnostic peritoneal lavage done. This revealed no gross
blood, and white count and red count later came back at 156
and 62,500 respectively.

His chest x-ray revealed a right scapular fracture, left
clavicular fracture, multiple bilateral rib fractures, and
subcutaneous air. Pelvic fracture revealed an open-book
pelvis with a wide diastasis. Significant labs were that of a
hematocrit of 26.4, a lactate of 6.9, and a creatinine of
1.7.

After initial resuscitation and after interpretation of the
diagnostic peritoneal lavage as being negative, he was taken
to the angio suite, where he had bilateral internal pudendal
arteries and bilateral anterior gluteal arteries embolized
for active bleeding. He also had an aortogram of the arch to
rule out any aortic injury. He was brought to the ICU, where
he continued to be hemodynamically unstable requiring nearly
30 units of pack cells in total, and 22 units of plasma, and
22 units of platelets. His lactate remained elevated and his
blood pressure was still not stable. His abdomen had become
distended, and the following morning, he was taken for CT
scan. On CT scan, he had a gross amount of fluid in the
abdomen consistent with blood and was felt to be
extravasating from his spleen.

He was taken immediately to the operating room where
exploratory laparotomy was performed and a splenectomy done.
Also in the operating room, there was an external fixator
placed by orthopedics on his pelvis as well as his femur. He
stabilized to some degree after that, and was brought back to
the intensive care unit. His significant events from that
point included an inferior vena cava filter that was placed
on hospital day 3 for prophylaxis against the complications
of DVT. He had returned to the operating room on hospital day
#5 for internal fixation of his femur and pelvis. On hospital
day #6, he returned to the operating room for closure of his
abdomen.

Initially, his abdomen had been left open and secured with a
[**Location (un) 5701**] bag as he was too distended to be closed. From a
neurological standpoint, he was showing some evidence of
movement and had a CAT scan of his head that showed no
damage. His kidneys were starting to show evidence of
failure, and he had rhabdomyolysis with elevated CKs, which
was being treated with alkalinization of his urine.

On approximately hospital day #10, after attempts at
ventilator weaning had failed, decision was made to place a
percutaneous tracheostomy tube. After discussions with the
family and consent was obtained, this was attempted at the
bedside. This was complicated by mild hypoxia in conjunction
with hyperkalemia that led to a cardiac arrest. CPR was
initiated immediately, and he regained a rhythm and a blood
pressure. Subsequent to that event, his neurologic status
deteriorated, and he slowly showed worsening of brainstem
function. He was kept ventilated with a tracheostomy for the
days to follow.

His gastrointestinal system was intact for feeding purposes,
but he did have an elevated bilirubin in the mid portion of
his hospital course as high as 28. This was presumed to be
from his massive blood transfusion requirement. His bilirubin
came down, but later in his course after the cardiac arrest,
he started to have an elevation of his transaminases. On
consulting with cardiology and hepatology, it was felt that
this was secondary to right heart failure that had come about
after his cardiac arrest. They had no specific prescription
for this.

From an infectious disease standpoint, he had multiple
cultures taken for intermittent fevers throughout his
admission. He had blood cultures that grew out both coag-
negative Staph and later vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus.
This is treated initially with vancomycin until the
enterococcal species came back, and he was eventually changed
to linezolid. All lines were changed appropriately, and at
the time of discharge, those results are still pending.

On the weekend prior to his eventual expiration, he underwent
a MRI of his head and spine as his neurological condition was
not improving and there was some note of decreased rectal
tone to go alone with the spiking fevers that he was having.
There was some concern that he had hypoxic brain injury as
well as a small concern that he could have a spinal cord
abscess causing neurological dysfunction and fever. While in
the MRI scanner, despite frequent suctioning, he had mild
episodes of hypoxia and again in the setting of some mild
hyperkalemia, experienced a second cardiac arrest. Of note,
he had been undergoing daily hemodialysis around this time to
combat this hyperkalemia. This arrest lasted approximately 3
minutes, and he was stabilized and again brought to the
intensive care unit.

He subsequently had worsening of his neurologic status and
neurology became involved. Because of the arrest, the MRI of
the head was never completed. On neurological exam, he
eventually lost nearly all brainstem reflexes including cold
calorics, corneals, and pupillary reflexes. He had an EEG
done, which showed severe diffuse encephalopathy, but did not
necessarily fulfill the criteria for lack of cerebral
activity.

On the morning of his eventual demise, he underwent an apnea
test, which he passed. He, after approximately 1.5 minutes
off the ventilator, did start to have spontaneous
respirations. Therefore, the criteria for brain death was not
met. Subsequent to this, a family meeting took place after
consulting with nephrology between the family, the ICU team,
and the trauma team. After long discussion as to his current
condition and grave prognosis, the family decided to pursue
comfort measures only and withdrew ventilator support. He
expired shortly thereafter. The medical examiner was
contact[**Name (NI) **] and accepted the case for postmortem examination.

DATE OF EXPIRATION:  [**2150-4-22**]



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5732**], [**MD Number(1) 5733**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 60908**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2150-4-22**] 16:43:22
T:  [**2150-4-23**] 08:32:59
Job#:  [**Job Number 60909**]



