Admission Date:  [**2179-4-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2179-5-20**]

Date of Birth:   [**2119-8-30**]     Sex:  F

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 59-year-old
African-American female with a history of multiple myeloma,
status post autologous bone marrow transplant in [**2175-7-3**], congestive heart failure (with an ejection fraction of
25% to 30%), status post total hip replacement in [**2179-7-3**] secondary to multiple myeloma infiltration who was home
from rehabilitation approximately two weeks ago.

According to her daughter, the patient has been tired; which
had been attributed to her oxycodone which was taken for
pain.  Her opiate dose was recently decreased, but for the
past two to three days she has been complaining of increased
fatigue, confusion, lethargy, decreased appetite, and
decreased oral intake.  She has had decreased fluid intake.

According to her family, she has not had any fevers, chills,
cough, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or
constipation.  She has not had any rashes or neck stiffness.
No photophobia.  No abdominal pain.  She had been seen by the
Hematology/Oncology fellow on [**2179-4-29**] who found her
tired but responsive and alert.

The following morning, her daughter found her shaking with
her eyes rolled back.  The patient was found to have a
critically high glucose by the Emergency Medical Service.  In
the ambulance, the patient had a generalized tonic-clonic
seizure for two minutes.  In the Emergency Room she had her
third seizure initiating in her left arm and then progressing
to a generalized tonic-clonic seizure.  She was given Ativan
and Dilantin 1 g.  Her glucose was found to be in the 600s.
She had a head computed tomography which was negative.  Her
blood urea nitrogen was 43 and creatinine was 1.7.  She was
started on an insulin drip and was receiving intravenous
fluids.  She was somnolent after the seizure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Multiple myeloma diagnosed in [**2174**]; status post
vincristine, dexamethasone, doxorubicin treatment and
chemotherapy in [**2175**].  She had an autologous bone marrow
transplant in [**2175-8-2**].  She has been started on
thalidomide in [**2178-1-2**].  She has been tried on
Methylin, and prednisone, and Decadron.
2.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 25%
to 30%.  Echocardiogram done in [**2178-12-3**].
3.  3+ mitral regurgitation.
4.  Mass at the head of pancreas with magnetic resonance
imaging in [**2179-3-5**] concerning for lymphoma versus
adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.
5.  History of hyperglycemia.
6.  Hypertension.
7.  Cholecystectomy.
8.  Right total hip replacement in [**2179-3-5**].
9.  Chronic renal insufficiency.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Lasix.
2.  Metoprolol.
3.  OxyContin.
4.  Oxycodone
5.  Lisinopril.
6.  Dexamethasone 40 mg p.o. q.d. (for four days from [**4-23**] to [**4-27**]).

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her daughter.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature was 96.1,
heart rate was 120, blood pressure was 154/70, respiratory
rate was 33, oxygen saturation was 98% on 4 liters of oxygen
by nasal cannula.  In general, the patient was tired but
arousable.  Oriented to place and month.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose, and throat examination revealed pupils were 2 mm
bilaterally.  No icterus.  The mucous membranes were dry.
The oropharynx was clear.  The neck was supple.  Pulmonary
examination revealed crackles at the left base; left greater
than right.  Expiratory wheezes.  Cardiovascular examination
revealed normal first heart sound and second heart sound with
a systolic murmur.  The abdomen revealed normal bowel sounds.
Soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Extremities revealed no
edema.  Dorsalis pedis pulses were 2+ bilaterally.
Neurologically, arousable.  Cranial nerves II through XII
were intact.  Questionable rightward gaze preference.
Strength was [**5-7**] in the upper and lower extremities.
Sensation was intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed arterial blood gas was 7.41/33/112.  White blood
cell count was white blood cell count was 5.5., hematocrit
was 38.7, and platelets were 46.  Differential with 80%
neutrophils and 18% lymphocytes.  Absolute neutrophil count
was 4980.  Cortisol level was 34.  Sodium was 139, potassium
was 3.2, chloride was 100, bicarbonate was 21, blood urea
nitrogen was 43, creatinine was 1.7 (most recent creatinine
was 1.1), and blood glucose was 663.  Her urine showed a
glucose of greater than 1000 with 15 ketones, pH was 5, 3 to
5 white blood cells, 3 to 5 red blood cells, a few bacteria,
trace acetone in the serum.  ALT was 21, AST was 13, alkaline
phosphatase was 112, amylase was 104, total bilirubin was
0.7., creatine kinase was 80, LDH was 450.  Troponin was less
than 0.3.  Calcium was 8.1, magnesium was 2.4, phosphate was
4.  Albumin was 3.  IgG on [**2179-4-9**] was 2335 and on
[**4-22**] was 1868.  Serum toxicology screen was negative as
was urine toxicology screen.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   An echocardiogram done in [**2178-4-2**] showed an ejection fraction of 25% to 30% with global
hypokinesis, 3+ mitral regurgitation, and left ventricular
moderately dilated.

A chest x-ray done on admission showed left lower lobe
atelectasis versus infiltrate, a small left effusion,
moderate congestive heart failure.

A computed tomography of the head showed punched out lesions.

Magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen on [**2179-4-20**]
showed 7-cm X 3-cm at the pancreatic head; atypical for
adenoma, question of plasmacytoma versus lymphoma.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:

1.  ENDOCRINE SYSTEM:  The patient was found to be
hyperglycemic, hyperosmolar >....................< acidosis.
She did not carry of diabetes prior to this.  It was thought
that it was secondary to her course of dexamethasone followed
by decreased oral intake and dehydration exacerbating it.
She was given hydration and an insulin drip.  Her glucose
corrected fairly rapidly.

On the second day of admission, the patient's glucose had
decreased to 204.  Her arterial blood gas had a pH of 7.38,
PCO2 of 36, PO2 of 123.   She was converted from an insulin
drip to regular insulin sliding-scale.  She was continued
with fluid hydration.  She no longer had any free water
boluses.

She was transferred out of the Medical Intensive Care Unit on
the fourth day of admission.  It was felt that her glucose
may have been elevated secondary to dexamethasone and
possible infection.  She did not have any further episodes of
hyperglycemia.  She was started on glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.d.
She had better control with the glipizide.  Her insulin was
adjusted for better coverage, and it was increased according
to needs.   Her fingersticks were stopped once palliative
care had been decided.

2.  NEUROLOGIC SYSTEM:  The patient had seizures thought to
be secondary to metabolic derangement.  She was seen by the
Neurology Service and started on Dilantin.  It was felt that
she likely had seizure due to hyperglycemia or hyponatremia.

She did not have any further episodes of seizures during the
course of this admission.  Her mental status did wax and
wane, but essentially improved from admission.  She did not
have any intracranial lesions.  However, she could not
tolerate a magnetic resonance imaging, and was unable to be
fully excluded.  She did have an electroencephalogram to
assess for any seizure focus, and that also did not show any
conclusive evidence for seizure.  The electroencephalogram
had suggested possible left focal cortical abnormalities.
She was continued on oral Dilantin.  The electroencephalogram
had suggested a left temporal focus, but since the CT scan
did not show any evidence, it was further pursued as she
could not tolerate a magnetic resonance imaging.  She had a
repeat electroencephalogram which did not show any focal
slowing.  Unlikely to be having ongoing seizures with the
report, and a repeat magnetic resonance imaging was not able
to be performed.

3.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient had a fever on her first
day of admission.  Subsequently, she had a lumbar puncture
done.  A chest x-ray 