Admission Date:  [**2121-9-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2121-9-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2081-5-7**]     Sex:  F

Service:

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Septic abortion.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Septic abortion.
2. Respiratory failure acute.
3. Septic shock.
4. Acidosis.
5. Cardiomyopathy primary.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.

DISCHARGE MEDICATION:  Ciprofloxacin 500 b.i.d. for three
weeks.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 40-year-old gravida
6 para 5 0-0-5 at 17-6/7 weeks with an EDC of [**2121-2-8**], who
presents as a transfer from an outside hospital with an IUFD
diagnosed the day of transfer.  She is also noted to have a
temperature of 105, headache, which did not resolve with
Tylenol, shaking chills.  Head CT and LP that were performed
were within normal limits.  White count was 9.7 with 34%
bands and 35 hematocrit.  She was noted to be A- blood type.
She is [**Location 7972**] and Portuguese speaking only.  Having
difficulty communicating.

Initial visualization of the patient revealed difficulty
breathing and has been afebrile since 5 p.m. getting Rocephin
1 gram x2 IV, clindamycin 900 IV, and gentamicin 150 IV.
Patient was noted to be feeling contractions and having
increased vaginal bleeding.  Vaginal bleeding began the day
of transfer status post lumbar puncture.  She received 5
liters IV fluids and was noted to have minimal urine output.
She was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
for further care.

OB HISTORY:  Significant for five normal vaginal deliveries
without complications.

GYN HISTORY:  No abnormal Pap smears and no sexually
transmitted diseases.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Negative.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Negative.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Prenatal vitamins.
2. Tylenol.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She was married, lives in [**Country 3587**], and
visiting cousins in this country.  She notably received
prenatal care and underwent amniocentesis three days prior to
this visit to the ED.

VITAL SIGNS ON ADMISSION:  Her blood pressure was notably
87/48, which after an IV fluid bolus, this resulted to
110s/60s.  Her heart rate was 128.  Her O2 saturation was 87%
on room air, which improved to 98% on 15 liters nasal
cannula.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  She was noted to be having difficulty
breathing.  She had rales bilaterally.  She was tachycardic.
She had soft and tender abdomen, positive bowel sounds,
palpable contractions every 5-10 minutes.  Extremities were
nontender with 2+ edema.  Vaginal examination was 190 and
high.  Transvaginal ultrasound confirmed IUFD.

Her laboratories were sent off at time of admission.  A chest
x-ray was performed.

She is a 40-year-old gravida 6 para 5 0-0-5 at 17-6/7 weeks
with a diagnosis of IUFD and sepsis.  She was started on
Zosyn 4.5 q.6h. and taken to the OR for a D&E.  An a-line and
central line were placed.  Chest x-ray to evaluate for
pulmonary edema and ARDS, and she was transferred to the MICU
after the operating room.  Six units of packed red blood
cells, 4 units of FFP, and 6 pack of platelets were called
for.

Shortly thereafter initial examination at 9:45 p.m., patient
was noted to be having worsening decompensation.  She was
intubated by the Anesthesia team.  The vaginal examination
was repeated.  She was found to be fully dilated.  The
membranes delivered, a foul odor was noted.  Delivery of a
stillborn fetus was accomplished.  Twenty units of HIT were
given, 1,000 mg of Cytotec were given rectally.  The cord was
clamped and cut and placenta was noted to be retained.  She
was taken immediately to the OR for a D&C.

She underwent the D&C, and was transferred to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit after her D&C.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Respiratory failure:  She was maintained on ventilation
through hospital day one until hospitalization day three and
a half at which time she had been modified on the ventilator
settings to optimize her pulmonary condition.  Chest x-rays
were repeated with at one point showed worsening, however,
there was concern that the chest x-ray was lagging behind her
clinical picture.  She was extubated on hospitalization day
#4 and was without difficulty.  She was maintained on nasal
cannula for her O2 saturation and maintained with improved
respiratory status throughout her hospitalization.  She had a
chest x-ray two days after extubation on hospital day six,
which revealed overall improvement.  She was weaned off her
nasal cannula, and her respiratory function improved
throughout her hospitalization.

2. Hypotension:  She was noted to be hypotensive on arrival.
Pressor support was given while in the Intensive Care Unit.
On postoperative day four, hospitalization day four, she was
weaned off her pressor support and was able to maintain her
own blood pressure without difficulty.  She improved
throughout her hospitalization and was not requiring pressor
support at the time of discharge.

3. ID:  She had notable high bandemia upon arrival.  She had
multiple cultures sent.  Urine culture was negative.  The
placenta was cultured and was found to have gram-negative
rods and PMNs.  She had blood cultures that were positive for
E. coli.  Throughout her hospital course, she came on
Rocephin, clindamycin, and gentamicin.  She was changed to
Zosyn from [**9-7**] to [**9-10**] and then began a course of
levofloxacin on day six, on [**9-10**].  She was transferred out
of the MICU and was on levofloxacin.  At the time of
discharge, she was converted to ciprofloxacin, which would
cover for E. coli and was discharged home with that on an
outpatient basis.  She remains afebrile.

At the time of discharge, she did have a notably high white
count three days prior to discharge, so a CT was performed to
evaluate for abscess.  She clinically appeared well.  The CT
was read as negative for fluid collections or abscesses, and
she was discharged home on Cipro.

4. Cardiovascular system:  She was noted to be high output
failure and a transthoracic echocardiogram was performed
initially at the time of admission and cardiac enzymes were
sent.  At the time she was on pressors.  Her first
transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated she had severe
global left ventricular hypokinesis.  No vegetations were
seen, but her ejection fraction was approximately 30%.  She
had a repeat echocardiogram on the 15th, which showed a left
ventricular ejection fraction of 55%.  Overall, as her fluid
status improved and sepsis resolved and her cardiac function
improved.  There was a question of myocarditis related to
this, however, no evidence for cardiac infection was found on
any of her examinations.  Her cardiac status improved and at
the time of discharge, she had no difficulty and was in
normal cardiac function.

5. Fluids, electrolytes, and nutrition:  Initially, patient
was maintained NPO with IV fluids.  Electrolytes were checked
on a frequent basis and repleted as needed.  She was found to
be in metabolic acidosis which was resolved as her infection
cleared and as her overall general health improved, as needed
she was maintained.

She, on postoperative day four, after extubation and transfer
out of the Intensive Care Unit, she was maintained on a
regular diet and advanced as tolerated.  She tolerated her
diet well and was doing well and was in stable condition.

6. GI:  She notably had increased liver function tests
thought likely secondary to multisystemic organ injury
related to her shock.  Her liver function tests were
monitored throughout her hospitalization and had been
decreasing at the time of discharge.

7. Psychosocial:  Patient had met with social worker and
interpreters on multiple occasions during her hospitalization
to explain the events that had occurred over that period of
time.  Emotional support had been provided to her throughout
her hospitalization and continually offered at the time of
discharge.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  The patient was discharged home in
stable condition.

FOLLOW-UP INSTRUCTIONS:  She was to followup with Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 724**], and she was discharged on [**2121-9-17**].



                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5