Admission Date:  [**2113-12-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2113-12-6**]


Service:  MICU/Green

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Bright red blood per rectum.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 85-year-old woman
with a history of coronary artery disease; status post
coronary artery bypass graft times four in [**2113-10-20**],
with a long hospital course complicated by difficulty
weaning, status post tracheostomy and percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy tube placement, as well as an upper
gastrointestinal bleed who was discharged to [**Hospital **]
Rehabilitation on [**11-28**]; now presenting with bloody
stools.

The patient had been doing well until one day prior to
admission when she had a large bowel movement with dark
clotted blood, approximately 300 cc, from the rectum.  Upper
gastrointestinal lavage was negative.  Continued with
"brick-colored" stools all night.  Hematocrit was 41.6 on
[**11-28**], which decreased to a hematocrit of 25 on
[**12-2**].  She received one unit with an increase in her
hematocrit to 28.  Received a second unit prior to transfer
back to [**Hospital1 69**].  Blood pressure
was slightly lower than normal at 96/50 (usually runs
110/60).  A slight bump in her creatinine from 1.2 to 1.5.
She was also noted to have a decrease in mental status.  At
baseline, she follows simple commands and mouths words.

In the Emergency Department, she was placed on synchronized
intermittent mandatory ventilation 500 X 12, 60% FIO2, with 5
of pressure support and 5 of positive end-expiratory
pressure.  Her ventilation settings at [**Hospital1 **] were a
synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation of 40 X 4,
with 5 of pressure support, 15 of positive end-expiratory
pressure, and 40% FIO2.  She received 1 mg of Haldol
intravenously for agitation and remained hemodynamically
stable.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Hypertension.
 2.  Coronary artery disease; status post myocardial
infarction in [**2113-10-20**] with a catheterization in
[**2113-10-20**] showing a left main 30% occlusion, left
anterior descending artery 100%, left circumflex 90%
occlusion, right coronary artery 90% occlusion with a
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 25.  She underwent a
coronary artery bypass graft times four in [**2113-10-20**]
with a left internal mammary artery to diagonal, saphenous
vein graft to left anterior descending artery, saphenous vein
graft to posterior descending artery, and saphenous vein
graft to obtuse marginal.  The course was complicated by
postoperative atrial fibrillation.  An echocardiogram done on
[**2113-11-4**] showed a left ventricular ejection fraction
of 40% to 50%, right ventricular hypertrophy, 2+ mitral
regurgitation, and 1+ tricuspid regurgitation.  It was of
suboptimal quality.
 3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 4.  Right total knee replacement.
 5.  A colonoscopy with polypectomy in [**2113-7-20**] at
[**Hospital **] [**Hospital 1459**] Hospital that revealed a cecal polyp
approximately 6 mm X 8 mm which was removed (and was negative
by biopsy per her niece).  It also showed diverticulosis as
well as internal hemorrhoids.
 6.  The patient had an upper gastrointestinal bleed
secondary to grade I esophagitis erosion in the
gastroesophageal junction as well as gastritis, and a
diverticulum in the third part of the duodenum with no active
bleeding.  This was done on her prior admission.
 7.  Status post tracheostomy placement on [**11-14**].
 8.  Status post percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube
placement on [**11-14**].
 9.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
10.  Congestive heart failure.
11.  Anxiety.
12.  History of ventricular tachycardia; on amiodarone.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  (Medications on transfer included)
 1.  Prevacid 30 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 2.  Lopressor 12 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 3.  Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
 5.  Doxycycline 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 6.  Colace 100 mg p.o.  b.i.d.
 7.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 8.  BuSpar 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 9.  Haldol 1 mg p.o. as needed.
10.  Tylenol.
11.  Benadryl.

ALLERGIES:

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed temperature was 100, heart rate was 86 to 91, blood
pressure was 117/69 (ranging from 98 to 117/52 to 69), oxygen
saturation was 100% on a synchronized intermittent mandatory
ventilation 500 X 12 with 5 pressure support, 5 of positive
end-expiratory pressure, and 60% FIO2.  In general, this was
an elderly with a tracheostomy who appeared uncomfortable.
Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed
pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Sclerae
were anicteric.  Extraocular movements were intact.  Mucous
membranes were dry and crusted.  The neck was supple.  Lungs
revealed coarse breath sounds throughout.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  The abdomen
was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Normal active bowel
sounds.  Extremities revealed no edema.  Dorsalis pedis
pulses were 2+ on the left, trace right with heel splints on
bilaterally.  Neurologically, awake, followed simple
commands.  She moved all four extremities.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Pertinent
laboratory data revealed white blood cell count was 7.4,
hematocrit was 34, and platelets were 206.  Mean cell volume
was 86.  Differential with 74% neutrophils, 19% lymphocytes,
4% monocytes, and 3% eosinophils.  PT was 13.5, INR was 1.2,
PTT was 24.8.  Sodium was 146, potassium was 4.3, chloride
was 110, bicarbonate was 26, blood urea nitrogen was 39,
creatinine was 1, and blood glucose was 129.  Arterial blood
gas revealed pH was 7.51, PCO2 was 33, and a PO2 was 212.
Lactate level was negative.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 10038**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 210**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2113-12-5**]  17:21
T:  [**2113-12-5**]  18:14
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
