Admission Date:  [**2144-1-28**]     Discharge Date:  [**2144-2-5**]


Service:  [**Company 191**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86-year-old
female with a history of congestive heart failure, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease who now presents from [**Hospital3 15416**] with substernal chest pain since 5 p.m. today.  The
patient was recently admitted to [**Hospital1 190**] for CHF exacerbation.  The substernal chest
pain started while she was sitting down for dinner.  It
started in the epigastric area and slowly spread to her back
in a fan like pattern.  She described the pain as [**9-17**].  She
reports accompanying shortness of breath, diaphoresis, but
denies radiation to the arms, dizziness, palpitations, loss
of consciousness or diaphoresis.  Her pain was relieved in
the Emergency Room with IV Nitroglycerin.  Her EKG
demonstrated rapid atrial fibrillation with rate related ST
depressions.  Her rapid ventricular rate was rate controlled
with Diltiazem in the Emergency Room.  Her episodes of pain
have been occurring intermittently since [**2143-2-7**].

Patient has a history of congestive heart failure with prior
admissions.  She reports increasing dyspnea on exertion.  She
denies any calf tenderness or swelling.  She does have a mild
productive cough.  She also complains of nausea in the last
few days with decreased appetite.  She denies any abdominal
pain or changes in bowel or bladder habits.  She denies any
bright red blood per rectum with melena.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, status post
myocardial infarction in [**1-10**], percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty to the right coronary artery.
Congestive heart failure, echocardiogram in [**11-8**]
demonstrated an EF of 20% and mitral regurgitation of 3+.
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.  NSVT status post pacer and
ICD placement.  Cerebrovascular accident.  Hypertension.
Hypothyroidism.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with
home oxygen dependence.  Diabetes mellitus.  Chronic renal
insufficiency.  Chronic low back pain.  Abdominal aortic
aneurysm, 4 cm thoracic and 3.9 by 4.4 cm infrarenal
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

MEDICATIONS:  Univasc 7.5 mg po q d, Atenolol 12.5 mg po q
day, Atrovent 2 puffs po bid, Protonix 40 mg po bid, Coumadin
4 mg po q day, Lasix 60 mg po q d, Serevent 2 puffs po bid,
Amiodarone 100 mg po q day, Levoxyl 100 mcg po q day,
Compazine Spansules 10 mg po q 12 hours prn.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is currently a resident at
[**Hospital3 537**].  She is followed by [**Hospital **] Medical Group. The
patient is a former smoker (one pack per day times 30 years).
The patient denies any alcohol use.  Code status is DNR/DNI.
Next of [**Doctor First Name **] is [**First Name5 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 104017**].

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.8, pulse 132, blood
pressure 110/61, respiratory rate 18, satting 96% on four
liters via nasal cannula.  General:  Alert and oriented times
three, no acute distress.  HEENT:  Pupils are equal, round,
and reactive to light, extraocular movements intact, moist
mucus membranes, no lymphadenopathy.  Neck supple.
Cardiovascular, S1 and S2, irregular rhythm, [**2-12**] holosystolic
murmur at the left lower sternal border.  Pulmonary, mild
bibasilar crackles, rhonchi at the right upper lobe,
decreased breath sounds globally.  Abdomen, nontender, non
distended, soft, positive bowel sounds.  Extremities, 2+
pitting edema bilaterally with mild stasis changes, pulses 1+
bilaterally.  Neurological, cranial nerves II through XII
intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count 10,
hematocrit 35.9, platelet count 223,000 with INR of 1.4, PTT
26.3, PT 14, sodium 139, potassium 4.3, chloride 96, CO2 30,
BUN 36, creatinine 1.5, glucose 245, calcium 9.1, phosphorus
2.6, magnesium 1.9.  CK 111, MB fraction 2 and troponin less
than 0.3.  EKG, atrial fibrillation, rate 133, ST depressions
in leads V4 through V6, axis negative 30 degrees.  Chest
x-ray, increased vascular markings in the upper zones,
peribronchial cuffing.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 86-year-old woman with
congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, who was
admitted with intractable chest pain and atrial fibrillation
with rapid ventricular rate.  The patient was initially
admitted to C Med for further evaluation and management.

At time of admission the patient's symptoms were felt to be
likely secondary to her atrial fibrillation with a rapid
ventricular rate.  The patient had been started on Diltiazem
for rate control in the Emergency Room and was continued on
Amiodarone as well.  Given the patient's suggestion of a CHF
exacerbation based on pulmonary and x-ray findings, it was
decided to hold the patient's Atenolol, provide afterload
reduction with Univasc, and provide the patient with Lasix
prn.  In addition, the patient was continued on Aspirin for
her history of coronary artery disease and her Coumadin was
held and the patient was started on a Heparin drip.  The
patient's symptoms were felt to be potentially consistent
with unstable angina and she was therefore ruled out with
three sets of negative enzymes.  It was determined to treat
the patient's CHF exacerbation and then determine whether
patient might benefit from a stress test to assess the areas
of cardiac muscle at risk.  It was also felt that the
patient's CHF exacerbation may be related to rapid
ventricular rate, demand ischemia, and loss of atrial kick
due to her atrial fibrillation.  The patient subsequently
ruled in for a myocardial infarction with her second troponin
elevated at 13.  Her EKG changes improved with rate control,
however, the patient's CHF did not significantly respond to
Lasix therapy.  A cardiology consult was obtained in order to
specifically address the possibility of electrical
cardioversion.  Cardiology consult felt it was unclear which
event had prompted the others, whether the atrial
fibrillation and CHF had proceeded the MI or vice versa,
however, given her multiple secondary problems, it was felt
that the base treatment would be electrical cardioversion.
Discussion was held with the patient and with her family
after which the patient persisted in stating that she as not
sure she wanted the procedure done.  Given the patient's
reluctance to undergo electrical cardioversion, it was
therefore determined to continue the patient on Diltiazem
drip to maintain a heart rate in the 60's as well as continue
diuresis with Lasix and Amiodarone therapy.

Over the next day the patient's chest pain completely
resolved, however, she remained tachycardic and mildly short
of breath and complained of palpitations.  Her
antihypertensive medications continued to be held given her
mildly low blood pressures and she was continued on Diltiazem
drip given her poor response to po Diltiazem.  The patient's
pulmonary status continued to be treated with Lasix prn as
well as aggressive nebulizer therapy and supplemental oxygen.
In addition, the patient's elevated creatinine was felt to be
secondary to her CHF, presenting a prerenal type picture.  A
urinalysis upon admission demonstrated small leukocyte
esterase but no bacteria.  However, given mild elevation in
her white blood cell count, the patient was empirically
started on Levofloxacin awaiting cultures.

The patient was found not to respond to further medical
therapy and was subsequently found to be in atrial
fibrillation with a heart rate in the 100's and a blood
pressure which dropped as low as 78/48.  Given the patient's
tachycardia and significant hypotension, she subsequently
underwent DC cardioversion with anesthesia present for
sedation.  This cardioversion successfully placed the patient
in sinus rhythm.  However, she spontaneously converted back
to atrial fibrillation within the next few hours.  Given the
patient's hypotension and rapid atrial fibrillation now
status post cardioversion, she was subsequently transferred
to the CCU for further intensive management.  On initial
presentation to the CCU the patient did not appear volume
overloaded based on pulmonary and the remainder of the
physic