Admission Date:  [**2155-10-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2155-10-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2083-8-7**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine Oncology

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 72-year-old male with
a history of non-small cell lung cancer, diagnosed in [**2155-5-13**] who initially presented with dyspnea on exertion and
discovered to have a right sided malignant effusion that was
subsequently treated with talc pleurodesis.  He has had an
indwelling pleural catheter, which was used to drain his
pleural space q3 days and has previously had a negative work
up for metastasis, who then underwent six cycles of
carboplatin and Taxol, which was completed one week ago.  He
felt well until the day prior to admission when he developed
mild dyspnea, malaise and a productive cough with green
sputum.  He had a routine visit in the oncology clinic on the
day prior to admission for blood work and administration of
Aranesp.  His ANC was found to be 180, it was previously 3850
on the 22nd.  Later that evening the patient checked his
temperature and it was 101, so he went to the ER and was
found to have a temperature of 102.5.  He was hypotensive, as
low as 80/48.  The patient was pancultured, received 4 to 5
liters of IV normal saline and 2 grams of cefepime.  The
blood pressure remained low, so he was started on peripheral
dopamine which caused increased tachycardia, so the dopamine
was discontinued.  A right IJ triple lumen catheter was
placed and he was started on Levophed and admitted to the
intensive care unit.  The patient denied chest pain, dysuria,
anorexia, melena, bright red blood per rectum, pain at the
chest tube site.  He does have numbness and paresthesias of
his hands and feet, which started at the time of initiating
chemotherapy.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Nonsmall cell lung cancer diagnosed in [**2155-5-13**] by
right malignant effusion, talc pleurodesis with Pleurovac in
[**2155-5-13**], status post six cycle of carboplatin and Taxol
therapy, completed one week ago.
2.  Dupuytren's contractures correction in the right hand.
3.  Hard of hearing.
4.  Right hip arthroplasty at [**Hospital6 2910**] in
[**2154**].
5.  Seasonal allergies.

ALLERGIES:  Bone scan tracer causes a rash, Percocet leads to
nausea and vomiting.

MEDICATIONS:  He is on GCSF, it was left given on [**10-5**],
he is on Aranesp last given [**6-10**] and has completed his
course, multi-vitamin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He had asbestos exposure while in the
military; he worked in the engine room of a ship for 4 years,
which was lined with asbestos.  He is a former tobacco
smoker; he smoked one pack a day and pipe smoking for 4
years, he quit in [**2155-4-12**].  Alcohol - he drinks 12 to
24 beers a week.  He has no history of drug use.  He lives
with his wife, he is a retired mechanic and is DNR and DNI.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father had a history of blood clots.  His
mother died of an intracerebral bleed, no history of lung
cancer or any malignancies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs in the ER, temperature of
102.0, heart rate 116, blood pressure 131/68, oxygen
saturation 94% on room air.  He is an elderly white male in
no apparent distress.  HEENT - PERRL, EOMI, anicteric, mucous
membranes are moist.  Neck - right IJ catheter in place, no
lymphadenopathy.  Lungs - decreased breath sounds on the
right, an indwelling chest tube catheter, generally clear,
but with mild expiratory wheezes throughout.  Cardiovascular
is tachycardia, normal S1 and S2, regular rhythm, no murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  Abdomen is mildly distended, hypoactive
bowel sounds, no masses, nontender.  Extremities - no
clubbing, cyanosis or edema, he has 2+ DP pulses bilaterally.
Skin - there are no rashes.  Neurologic - decreased sensation
to light touch on his feet, strength 5/5 on the lower
extremities, globally decreased strength to [**5-17**] on his right
lower extremity, hip, knee and ankle and the patient
attributes this to his hip replacement and sciatica.

LABS ON ADMISSION:  White count was 1.7, differential - 4
neutrophils, 4 bands, 50% lymphocytes, 18% monos, 8 meta and
12 myelocytes.  His ANC was 320, hematocrit 28, platelets
100.  PT 14, PTT 60.4.  His INR 1.3.  His chem-7 was normal
with the exception of potassium of 3.4. His urinalysis was
negative.  Blood cultures and urine cultures were sent from
the emergency room.  A chest x-ray showed persistent right
hydrothorax.  The left lung was clear.  A repeat chest x-ray
showed the right IJ catheter tip in the distal superior vena
cava.

The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit for
febrile neutropenia and hypotension and requiring pressor
therapy.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1.  Febrile neutropenia:  He was started on cefepime 2 grams
IV q8 hours for empiric coverage.  Blood cultures and urine
cultures were followed.  Although the chest x-ray did not
show signs of an infiltrate the right sided effusion could
have been obscuring a pneumonia on the right.  The pleural
space was drained and cultured.  On the first day the patient
was hemodynamically stable and was transferred to the general
floor on 3 liters of oxygen nasal cannula.  Throughout his
hospital course he was started on Levaquin for suspected
pneumonia.  At the time of discharge his blood cultures were
negative to date.  His pleural cultures had grown greater
than 3 colony types with first growth coag negative organisms
and his sputum had been consistent with oropharyngeal flora.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient had pneumonia as stated above.
He also had an increasing effusion in his right lung.
Interventional pulmonary was contact[**Name (NI) **] regarding further
recommendations with how to manage his malignant effusion.
CT surgery was also contact[**Name (NI) **] regarding his candidacy for a
VATS procedure, however, CT surgery decided that given his
overall picture he was not a candidate for the VATS
procedure, so they recommended leaving the drain to gravity,
however, the patient received interventional pulmonary, the
fluid would be drained on [**10-14**] and they would continue
to follow fluid cultures.  The initial pleural fluid studies
were not consistent with empyema.  At the time of discharge
he went home continuing his regular catheter care.

3.  Anemia:  Over the hospital course he was transfused 2
units.  His hematocrit remained stable, in the low 3-0 silk
for the rest of his hospital course.

4.  Heme:  The patient was noted to have an elevated PT and
PTT, his fibrinogen level was elevated, so it was felt that
this was likely secondary to a vitamin K deficiency.  The
patient was given one dose of p.o. vitamin K on [**10-12**].

5.  Neutropenia:  The patient's neutropenia resolved without
the use of GCSF.  No further precautions were taken at the
time.

6.  The patient was seen by physical therapy during this
hospital course and it was felt that he would need follow up
about 3 to 5 times a week for gait training and endurance
training.

The patient was discharged home on [**2155-10-15**] with the
following discharge instructions of an antibiotic.

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1.  Small cell lung cancer with malignant right pleural
effusion.
2.  Febrile neutropenia.
3.  Pneumonia.

FOLLOW UP:  Follow up with oncologist, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].

INVASIVE PROCEDURES:  He had his effusion drained.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  He was discharged home on home oxygen
by nasal cannula and titrate the oxygen so that his
saturation remained above 93% with ambulation and activity.
He was also discharged home on multi-vitamin one capsule p.o.
q.day as well as the admission medications and Levaquin for 3
more days 500 mg p.o. and Albuterol with ipratropium bromide
inhalers to use p.r.n..





                          DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) **] 11-160

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 8736**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2155-10-30**]  16:41
T:  [**2155-11-3**]  09:32
JOB#:  [**Job Number 34059**]
