Admission Date:  [**2156-7-11**]     Discharge Date:  [**2156-7-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2094-8-27**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 61-year-old male with
a past medical history significant for diabetes mellitus type
2, chronic renal insufficiency on hemodialysis with a history
of congestive heart failure, status post A-V fistula
placement, history of diverticulosis, status post partial
colectomy, hypertension, and abdominal hernia.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:
1. Norvasc 20 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4. Nephrocaps q.d.
5. Quinine 325 mg p.o. q.d.
6. Renagel 240 t.i.d.
7. Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d.
8. Glipizide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
9. Neurontin 300 mg p.o. b.i.d.
10. PhosLo with meals.
11. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:
1. Demerol.
2. Valium.
3. Codeine.

This 61-year-old male was admitted to [**Hospital1 190**] on [**2156-7-11**] for increased shortness of
breath.  He was transferred from [**Hospital3 16673**], where he was
admitted for severe shortness of breath.  He was diuresed
with Lasix with no change in symptoms at the outside
hospital.  Also at the time of his admission to the outside
hospital, patient had a two week history of a cough
nonproductive with a current chest cold, however, denying any
fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, or chest pain.

Chest x-ray was done at the outside hospital, which revealed
bilateral pleural effusions.  EKG was performed, which
revealed new T-wave inversions in leads I, aVL, and cardiac
enzymes were performed as well showing a small increase in
troponin to 0.7 with a CK MB of 10.  The patient was treated
in the Emergency Room with Heparin drip, beta blocker, and
aspirin, and was transferred to [**Hospital1 188**] for cardiac catheterization.

Cardiac catheterization was performed [**2156-7-12**], which
revealed left main coronary artery disease and two vessel
coronary artery disease.  Patient underwent coronary artery
bypass grafting x3 with the left internal mammary artery to
the left anterior descending coronary artery.  Reverse
saphenous vein graft to the right posterior descending
coronary artery, and reverse saphenous vein graft to the
obtuse marginal coronary artery.

On [**2156-7-16**], the patient was originally scheduled,
however, to have surgery on the [**7-15**], but when the
patient was brought to the holding area, the morning of the
10th, he was found to have an oxygen saturation of 85%,
appearing short of breath, and was tachypneic.  An EKG was
performed at that time which showed slightly worse T-wave
inversions laterally.  ABG revealed respiratory acidosis with
a large AA gradient, and the patient was postponed for
surgery and transferred to the CCU.

The evening of [**2156-7-15**], the patient had an intra-aortic
balloon pump placed prophylactically.  Patient was
transferred to the CSRU after surgery on milrinone 0.4 mcg,
0.1 mcg of Levophed, 0.15 mcg of nitroglycerin, and 20 mcg of
propofol.

A Renal consult was called on the patient the day of his
surgery and their plan was for hemodialysis the following
day, and to D/C the patient's intra-aortic balloon pump if
the patient remained hemodynamically stable.

Postoperative day one, the patient still remained intubated
on an insulin drip, a Levophed drip, as well as propofol
drip.  With a T max of 101.8 and sinus rhythm with an
intra-aortic balloon pump still in place at 1:1.  Patient was
sedated due to his anxiety upon waking up at which time he
would flail his arms causing his blood pressure to go up.
Patient also received small doses of Versed as needed for his
increased agitation upon waking.  He had minimal urine output
with a BUN of 23 and a creatinine of 5.8, and he was given
Tylenol for his fever.

His intra-aortic balloon pump was removed that same morning
after which the patient received hemodialysis.  A couple
minutes into his hemodialysis, SVTs were noted on the monitor
with a systolic blood pressure in the 90s.  A crash cart was
brought into the room for cardioversion.  The patient rapidly
deteriorated into V-tach and around 10:52 that morning, the
patient was brought to the operating room.  After several
attempts to resuscitate the patient using closed chest
resuscitative measures, the patient's chest was opened in the
ICU for open cardiac massage before being brought to the
operating room.

At that time, a left femoral and a left arterial sheath was
also placed in the left groin in an anticipation that the
patient would probably need extracorporal membrane
oxygenation.  The patient underwent placement of the
extracorporeal membrane oxygenator as well as another
intra-aortic balloon pump, and underwent coronary artery
bypass grafting x1 with a free left internal mammary artery
to the left anterior descending coronary artery the morning
of [**2156-7-17**].

The patient was transferred to the CSRU on vasopressin,
amiodarone, and Levophed.  Patient had chest tube output of
200 cc q 15 minutes for which he received constant infusion
of blood products with a brief attempt at CVVH, which had to
be stopped due to the fact that the patient was extremely
volume sensitive causing the patient's ECMO to chatter.  The
patient had episodes V-tach and V-fib which required multiple
defibrillations with the internal paddles as well as an extra
bolus of amiodarone. The patient was able to open his eyes
for his family, however, was maintained sedated on propofol.

Postoperative day two status post the patient's original
coronary artery bypass grafting, the patient was still on
amiodarone drip as well as cisatracurium drip, Fentanyl drip,
insulin drip, Levophed drip, Pitressin drip and remained
sedated on propofol with a T max of 101.3, and the
intra-aortic balloon pump on 1:1 ECMO in place on full
ventilatory support.  Multiple blood products were given for
volume and a low hematocrit.  The patient continued to have
large amounts of chest tube drainage from one of his chest
tubes.  CVVH was restarted.  The patient was started on
bicarb drip, which was changed over to normal saline due to
his increasing pH.

On physical exam, the patient's right foot was cool, and his
left foot and left calf were cold and slightly dusky.  DP and
PT pulses were present by Doppler on the right foot, however,
not present on the left.  The patient was unresponsive to
verbal and physical stimuli.  An increased number of
premature atrial contractions were noted for which patient
received another amiodarone bolus and around 5 o'clock that
afternoon, the patient had a 17 beat run of V-tach as well as
multiple episodes of atrial fibrillation with a heart rate as
high as 140.  Several doses of Lopressor were given
intravenously, and the patient converted back to normal sinus
rhythm.  ECMO flow was maintained at 2.6 to 2.9 liters per
minute throughout the day with a hematocrit being checked
hourly by the perfusionist with a treatment of Heparin as
needed.

Intra-aortic balloon pump remained 1:1 with good wave form.
Patient also underwent an infusion of platelets for a
platelet count of 58,000.  Multiple blood products as well as
potassium were administered to keep the hematocrit greater
than 60 and a potassium at 5.

Patient had a V-fib arrest at 9:30 that evening of [**2156-7-18**] for which they were able to resuscitate to normal
saline.  However, the patient continued to be in rapid afib
following the arrest.

The following morning, postoperative day three, the patient
was still continued on ECMO with the intra-aortic balloon
pump at 1:1 on Levophed and vasopressin as well as
amiodarone.  On physical exam, the patient still had a
cyanotic appearing left lower extremity with absent pulses
and Dopplerable pulses on the right side.  Hematocrit of
31.5.  The patient remained in stable condition with only an
increase in the Levophed drip for hypertension, and the
patient's CVVH was stopped for transport to the Cardiac Cath
Laboratory.  Due to patient's refractory arrhythmias, cardiac
catheterization revealed left main coronary artery disease as
well as two vessel coronary artery disease with a patent LIMA
to the left anterior descending artery, patent SVG to t