Admission Date:  [**2163-1-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2163-1-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2132-10-6**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 30-year-old gentleman
with a history of autoimmune chronic acute hepatitis with
cirrhosis with a recent admission to [**Hospital3 417**] Hospital
for increased bilateral lower extremity edema.

On admission, the patient's sodium was noticed to be 135,
blood urea nitrogen was 13, and creatinine 1.2, and ammonia
was 52.  The patient was given Lasix, Aldactone, vitamin K,
ceftriaxone, and lactulose.  During the admission, Mr.
[**Known lastname 42226**] became progressively more lethargic with ammonia
increasing to 63, CO2 decreasing to 14, and white blood cell
count increasing to 21.

At that time, the patient was transferred to [**Hospital1 346**] for evaluation for a liver
transplant.

Of note, the patient has become progressively hypoxemic with
his arterial blood gas revealing numbers of 7.41/34/and 60.
A Pulmonary consultation was obtained, and an abdominal
computed tomography revealed bilateral airspace disease with
significant effusions.  A human immunodeficiency virus test
was refused, and the patient was admitted for further
management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic active autoimmune hepatitis with an
esophagogastroduodenoscopy in [**2161-11-9**] revealing
varices, gastritis, and encephalopathy.
2.  Pneumonia times three.
3.  Cocaine use.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Depression.

ALLERGIES:  Unknown.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:   Renally dosed dopamine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has four children.  He lives
with his girlfriend.  A positive history of cocaine use in
the past.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed heart rate was 81, blood pressure was 123/56, and
oxygen saturation was 97 on 35% ventilation mask.  In
general, the patient was somnolent.  The patient appeared to
open eyes to stimulation.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed scleral icterus.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed normal first heart sounds and second
heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Pulmonary
examination revealed diffuse upper airway rhonchi.  Abdominal
examination revealed a soft and distended abdomen with
decreased bowel sounds.  Extremity examination revealed 2+
bilateral nonpitting edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
revealed white blood cell count was 21, hematocrit was 38,
and platelets were 102.  Sodium was 127, potassium was 4.4,
chloride was 100, bicarbonate was 17, blood urea nitrogen was
63, creatinine was 10.2.  Total protein was 6.3.  Albumin was
1.3, total bilirubin was 6.2, AST was 209, alkaline
phosphatase was 167, ALT was 108, amylase was 172, lipase was
9, and LDH was 468.  Ammonia was 63.  Alpha-fetoprotein was
less than 5.  Urinalysis revealed 12 red blood cells and 10
to 15 white blood cells.  Microbiology of [**1-15**] revealed
stool was negative for Salmonella, Shigella, Campylobacter,
Yersinia, and Escherichia coli.  Sputum Pneumocystis carinii
pneumonia on [**1-18**] was negative urine.  On [**1-16**],
less than 10,000 coagulase-negative staph.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed an
ejection fraction of 65% with left ventricular hypertrophy.
Normal right-sided pressures.

A computed tomography of the abdomen revealed perihepatic
ascites with positive dilated umbilical veins, bilateral
airspace disease in the lungs, and positive bowel wall
thickening.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit and was intubated subsequently for noncardiogenic
pulmonary edema and impending respiratory failure.

The patient was continued on pressors due to his hypotension.
The patient was followed closely by the Hepatology Service,
but it was felt that the patient had a very poor prognosis
and was thought to have spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
Vancomycin was started, and ceftriaxone was started
empirically.  He had worsening mental status, febrile
episodes, and worsening hypotension.

The patient continued to be coagulopathic secondary to liver
dysfunction.  The patient received one unit of packed red
blood cells and vitamin K on numerous occasions without
resolution of his coagulopathy.  The Hepatology Service
deemed that the patient was not a candidate for a liver
transplant and advocated less aggressive measures given his
progressively deteriorating condition; including his
worsening encephalopathy.

The patient continued to be hyponatremic throughout his
hospital stay; which was thought to be secondary to volume
retention, and the patient could not be volume restricted
secondary to low blood pressures.  The patient was continued
on normal saline.

As far as the patient's renal failure, ultrafiltration was
considered but was not an option given the patient's low
blood pressures.  The patient was given bicarbonate 150 mEq
over four to five hours to compensate for his metabolic
acidosis, and Amphojel was administered (per the Renal
Service recommendations) for his hyperphosphatemia.

Over the next few days it became apparent that the patient
was not improving, and a family discussion was undertaken
under the direction of Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name (STitle) **].  Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **] discussed
with the family the futility of the patient's care and that
further medical management would not result in any
improvement of the patient's condition and that change to
comfort measures only would be the most appropriate.  The
family members understood the gravity of the situation.  They
discussed the patient's interests and preferences amongst
themselves and decided that change to comfort measures only
care would be most appropriate with stopping all pressors.

The patient was changed to comfort measures only and had his
pressors stopped at 1:30 p.m. on [**2163-1-24**].  A
morphine drip was started.  The patient became asystolic
without any measurable blood pressure at 4:55 p.m.   There
was no audible heart beat or breath sounds.  Pupils were
nonreactive.  The patient was not responsive to sternal rub
or pinprick.  The family expressed their wishes not to go
ahead with a postmortem.  The attending was notified.

A Death Certificate was completed, and the patient passed
quietly and comfortably at 4:55 p.m. on [**2163-1-24**].
The Hepatology Service and Renal Service attendings were made
aware of the patient's passing, and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 497**] spoke with the
family and offered some comforting words as well.





                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5837**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 39096**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 4712**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2163-3-29**]  19:20
T:  [**2163-3-29**]  19:21
JOB#:  [**Job Number 37995**]
