Admission Date: [**2198-1-6**]        Discharge Date: [**2198-1-16**]


Service:  NSU


HOSPITAL COURSE:  Ms. [**Known firstname **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] [**Known lastname **] is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old Chinese-
speaking woman who had a fall down 4 steps and hit the back
of her head.  Son was with the patient and started CPR and
said he felt no pulse.  EMTs arrived and did find patient to
have a pulse on the scene.  She had a large laceration on the
back of her head.  On arrival to the ER she was awake but not
verbal, was nauseous and vomiting.  She was intubated,
sedated, and paralyzed and brought to CAT scan.

Past medical history is remarkable for osteoporosis,
glaucoma, cataracts, and status post cholecystectomy.

Meds are ursodiol.

Allergies are none known.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a nonsmoker, drinks no alcohol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Blood pressure was 154/100, heart rate
100, respiratory 16, 100 percent on 2 liters.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat showed a large oozing hematoma at the
occiput.  Lungs were clear bilaterally.  Heart showed regular
rate and rhythm, normal S1, S2.  Abdomen was soft, nontender.
Bowel sounds were positive.  Neuro:  She was off propofol for
15 minutes.  She was moving all extremities very strongly,
attempting to pull at the endotracheal tube.  She is not
following commands through the Chinese interpreter.  Strength
was [**4-26**] throughout all extremities.  Pupils showed a right
surgical pupil.  Left was 2 mm and nonreactive.  Deep tendon
reflexes were 2 plus bilaterally in the upper and lower
extremities, and toes were upgoing.

Her hematocrit was 39, sodium was 141, potassium 4.1,
chloride 102, bicarbonate 26.

CAT scan showed a thin layer of a right subdural with blood
in the sulci and a right temporal subarachnoid bleed.  There
was no shift, no hydrocephalus.  Cervical spine CT showed no
acute fracture.  Chest x-ray and pelvis x-ray were negative.
There was no skull fracture.

Patient was admitted with q. 1-hour neuro checks.  Blood
pressure was recommended to be kept less than 140.  She was
out of C-spine precautions.  She was loaded with a gram of
Dilantin.

On [**1-7**] she did spike a temperature to 102.4 and was
cultured, and she was requested to get a head CTA to rule out
a carotid dissection, and she also had a repeat head CT
prior.  She was still not following commands.  The repeat CT
did show a slightly enlarged subdural hematoma and the CTA
showed no dissection or vascular abnormality.  Repeat CAT
scan the next day, on the 17th, was stable.

Fever workup did show pneumonia, and she was started on
azithromycin for that.  She was also started on tube feedings
after she was extubated on the 17th.  Her neurological exam
did slowly improve.  Sedation was stopped and she was allowed
to wake up.  She had an MRA which was stable, and she was
then transferred to the floor.

She did open her eyes to stimulation but did not follow
commands.  She would have purposeful movements of all 4
extremities.  She did remain in a hard cervical collar.  She
did slowly become more awake.  She was seen by both Physical
Therapy and Occupational Therapy and did well.  A swallowing
evaluation was attempted on [**1-12**], but she was too
sleepy to cooperate but since then has become more awake and
purposeful and has been able to take p.o. without
difficulties.  She did continue to wake up and started to
follow visual commands and was nodding "yes" and "no"
appropriately and was cooperative with her treatment.  She
did continue to slowly improve neurologically.  She will have
a further evaluation by Speech and Swallow.  She has been
screened for rehab and will be discharged when bed is
available.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Neurologically stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Subdural hematoma.
2. Pneumonia.
3. Intracranial hemorrhage.

Her discharge medications are famotidine 30 mg once daily,
subcutaneous heparin 5000 units b.i.d.,
oxycodone/acetaminophen elixir 5 to 10 mg p.o. q. 4-6 hours
p.r.n., Dilantin 150 mg p.o. q. 8, Tylenol p.r.n.

She should follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 739**] in 1 month with
repeat head CT.



                        [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) 739**], MD [**MD Number(2) 2930**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2198-1-16**] 11:21:24
T:  [**2198-1-16**] 11:53:03
Job#:  [**Job Number 18590**]
