Admission Date:  [**2163-3-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2163-3-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2120-9-25**]     Sex:  F

Service:  KURLIND
CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shaking chills.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 42 year-old woman with
a history of type 1 diabetes who was recently discharged from
[**Hospital3 **] a little over a week ago after an admission for
returns to the Emergency Room complaining of a two day
history of shaking chills.  She has not measured any fever at
home.  She denies chest pain, shortness of breath, cough,
urinary symptoms, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting.  She does admit
to recently manipulating her Lasix dose to decrease her
weight.

significant for insulin dependent diabetes for thirty years
with several episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis.  She has
nephropathy and is status post living related renal
transplant in [**2150**] complicated by chronic rejection and
therefore she has chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline
creatinine of 2.6 to 3.5.  She has diabetic neuropathy,
hypertension, eating disorder, hydradenitis, recurrent
urinary tract infections and she had a negative stress
thallium test in [**Month (only) 205**] of last year.

MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg q.d., Cyclosporin 100 mg b.i.d.,
Imuran 50 mg q.d., Diovan 80 mg q.d., Metoprolol 50 mg
b.i.d., Zocor 20 mg q.d., Neurontin 100 mg b.i.d., Renagel
one tablet three times a day, Bethanechol 25 mg t.i.d.,
Procrit 4000 units subcutaneous biweekly, Lentis 12 to 14
units every evening and Humalog sliding scale with one unit
for every 15 grams of carbohydrate in a meal and 1 unit of 50
points of blood sugar over 150 before each meal.  She takes
Lasix 80 mg q.d.  She also recently started Clonidine .1 mg
b.i.d. and Bactrim DS one tablet every other day.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  This is an emotionally upset woman in
no acute distress.  Temperature 97.8.  Pulse 72.  Respiratory
rate 20.  Blood pressure 116/68.  Oxygen saturation is 100%
on 2 liters nasal cannula.  Examination of head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat revealed pupils are equal, round and reactive
to light with a surgical pupil on the right.  Extraocular
movements intact.  Oropharynx is benign.  Neck was supple
without adenopathy or bruit.  There was no JVD.  Lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Examination of the heart
revealed a regular rate and rhythm with a grade 1 out of 6
systolic ejection murmur.  Examination of the abdomen
revealed it was soft, normoactive bowel sounds, nontender.
There was on mass or organomegaly.  Examination of the
extremities revealed no rash or edema.  On neurological
examination the patient was alert and oriented times three.
Cranial nerves II through XII were intact.  Strength and
sensation were equal and symmetric bilaterally.  Deep tendon
reflexes were 2+ and symmetric.  There were no focal
findings.

INITIAL LABORATORY STUDIES:  Significant for a white blood
cell count of 14.8, hematocrit of 31, platelets 387, sodium
134, potassium 6.2, chloride 103, bicarb 13, BUN 95,
creatinine 3.5, glucose 537.  This gave her an anion gap of
18.  A total CK was 120 with an MB fraction of 9.2, troponin
[**Name Prefix (Prefixes) **] [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] .3, calcium 8.3, phos 8.0, magnesium 2.6.
Urinalysis showed trace ketones, 3 to 5 white blood cells,
moderate bacteria and contaminated with 6 to 10 squamous
epithelial cells.  A chest x-ray showed no infiltrates.  An
electrocardiogram showed peaked T waves, poor R wave
progression and slight ST elevations in V2 and V3 and ST
depressions in V5 and V6 that were not significant from
previous electrocardiograms.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was felt to be in diabetic
ketoacidosis based on her laboratory work.  She was begun on
an insulin drip at 10 units an hour.  She was also begun on
intravenous fluids and she was treated with Levofloxacin for
questionable bacteremia.  She was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit and the insulin drip was continued.  Her
blood sugar decreased on the insulin drip and she became
hypoglycemic at 2:00 in the morning on the night of admission
with a blood sugar of 21.  This occurred approximately an
hour and a half after the insulin drip was shut off.  A
central line was also placed in the right IJ at that time.
When the patient's blood sugar was 21 she also became
hypotensive and bradycardic.  She was treated with 3 amps of
D50 and also received copious amounts of intravenous fluid as
well as Atropine to maintain her heart rate and blood
pressure.  Her glucose then increased back to as high 547 at
which a low dose insulin drip was restarted.  An arterial
blood gas at this time revealed a pH of 7.16, CO2 42, PO2 of
186.  An arterial line was also placed at this point.  A
repeat chest x-ray showed a question of a right lower lobe
infiltrate versus asymmetric congestive heart failure.

Due to the patient's decreased mental status and metabolic
acidosis she was intubated at this time and placed on a
ventilator.  She was changed to D5 half normal saline.  Her
insulin drip was carefully managed to maintain her blood
glucose at acceptable levels.  The next morning the patient
was noted to have increased BUN/creatinine with a BUN of 93
and a creatinine of 5.6.  This was felt to be acute on
chronic renal failure secondary to volume depletion with a
question of ATN and her Cyclosporin was held.  She received
more intravenous hydration.  Her Diovan and Lasix were also
held.  Her hematocrit was noted to have decreased from 31 to
23.  She had no gross blood in her stool, but was guaiac
positive.  She was transfused with 2 units of packed red
blood cells and subsequently had an appropriate increase in
her hematocrit back to 31.  The patient's blood sugars
remained more stable subsequent to her intubation and she did
not show signs of going back into diabetic ketoacidosis,
although she did have a persistent low bicarb level between
14 and 17.  She became more alert and responded to commands
while on the ventilator and as her mechanics and oxygen
saturation were good she was extubated and tolerated this
well.  She had no further respiratory problems.

Her urine culture was positive for greater then 100,000 units
of staph aureus, however, contaminants were present as well.
She was given a single dose of Vancomycin, however,
subsequent to this as there was no clinical evidence of
systemic infection no further doses were given.  The Levaquin
was also discontinued as the official [**Location (un) 1131**] on the chest
x-ray was not suggestive of a pneumonia.  The patient was
able to come off the insulin drip on hospital day number two
and she was stable for transfer to the regular floor.  The
patient was noted to be very belligerent and confrontational
after being extubated.

The patient was also seen by cardiology consultation, because
she had a slightly elevated MBCK of 11 with a total CK of
120.  At this point a bedside echocardiogram was performed,
which showed left atrial dilation, but a normal left
ventricular that was hyperdynamic with an ejection faction of
greater then 70%.  No wall motion abnormalities were noted
and no significant valvular abnormalities were noted except
for 2+ tricuspid regurgitation, moderate pulmonary
hypertension was seen.  It was felt that no evidence of any
ischemia or myocardial infarction.  On hospital day three the
patient's arterial blood gas was 7.35 pH, PCO2 of 29, PO2
113, and bicarb of 17.  Her creatinine had decreased slightly
to 5.2.  At this time her Cyclosporin level was 81.  She
remained afebrile and hemodynamically stable.  She was noted
to have significant lower extremity edema bilaterally
probably as a result of intravenous fluid during her
hemodynamic resuscitation.

By hospital day number four the patient's hematocrit was 31
and stable.  Her creatinine had decreased to 4.6.  She was
extremely hostile and confrontational overnight threatening
to leave and refusing to cooperate with the psychiatric
consultation and therefore required security sitter.
However, she was more cooperative although still somewhat
hostile subsequent to this.  The patient's blood sugars
remained somewhat labile after she was resumed on her La