Admission Date:  [**2124-3-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2124-4-6**]


Service:  VASCULAR

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Endovascular graft leaking.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This patient was initially seen
by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 18835**] in [**2122-2-5**].  He underwent an endovascular
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair for an aneurysm secondary to
intermittent pain for 2-3 weeks prior to repair.  He has been
followed continuously and was noted to have endovascular
leak.  He returned for further treatment of his endovascular
leak.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.  Degenerative
joint disease.  3.  Kidney cyst.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  1.  Renal surgery for renal cyst,
which is remote.  2.  T&A, which is remote.  3.  Left
cataract surgery, which is remote.  4.  Bilateral femoral
stent placement.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Univasc 25 mg q.d., Prozac 25 mg
q.d., Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d., Lorazepam 1 mg at h.s.,
Prilosec 20 mg q.d., Beconase nasal spray p.r.n.,
................. 20 mg q.d., Viagra 50 mg q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his spouse.  [**Name (NI) **] is
retired.  He ambulates independently.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Blood pressure 146/82,
pulse 96.  General:  The patient was a white male in no acute
distress.  HEENT:  Unremarkable.  There were no carotid
bruits.  Chest:  Lungs clear to auscultation.  Heart:
Regular, rate and rhythm without murmurs, rubs, or gallops.
Abdomen:  Unremarkable.  Bowel sounds positive.  Pulse exam:
Dopplerable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial bilaterally.
No other pulses were documented.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the
preoperative holding area on [**2124-3-21**].  He underwent
removal of endovascular stent graft with an aorto-iliac
bypass graft with ligation of the left hypogastric artery.
The patient had suprarenal clamping.  There was a large
amount of thrombus within the aorta.  The patient required 3
U packed red blood cells intraoperatively and 700 cc of
cell [**Doctor Last Name 10105**].

The patient was transferred to the PACU in guarded condition.
The patient was admitted to the SICU for respiratory support.
He was hemodynamically stable.  His PAP was 42/29 with a
wedge of 12, SVR 1111.  He was sedated and intubated.
Postoperative hematocrit was 37.2, white count 9.6, BUN 27,
creatinine 1.3, potassium 4.1.

Nitroglycerin IV was continued to maintain systolic blood
pressure in the 100-150 range.  He remained NPO.
Perioperative Cephazolin was continued.

About 7 p.m. of the operative night, the resident was called
to see the patient secondary to loss of pulse in the right
foot.  The patient returned to the operating room at 11:50
for reexploration of thrombectomy of the right ABF limb and
external iliac artery.

Intraoperative findings included a right ABF limb.  There was
no twisting or kinking of the graft.  There was no thrombus
proximally, but there was distal thrombus.  At the end of the
procedure, the patient had a palpable right femoral and
Dopplerable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial.  He returned
to the SICU for continued care.

Electrocardiogram was without ischemic changes.  The patient
remained in metabolic acidosis with a decreasing lactate.
His cardiac index was diminished but responded to volume
repletion.  Total CK was 1700, MB 0, and troponin levels
negative.

On postoperative day #1, he remained afebrile and
hemodynamically stable.  Hematocrit remained stable at 37.9.
Total CK was 1699, 98, MB was 30, MBI index was 1.8, and
troponin level was 0.3.  Chest x-ray was without failure.
The patient remained sedated and intubated.  He remained in
the unit for continued monitoring.

Epidural was placed intraoperative, but this was discontinued
secondary to the patient's hypotension.  The catheter was
kept in place and capped.  The catheter was removed when
coags returned to [**Location 213**].

On postoperative day #2, the patient continued a trend of
hypoxia.  Lungs were clear to auscultation.  Abdominal exam
was soft, nontender, with no erythema.  The patient's
hematocrit drifted to 31.3.  Chest x-ray showed bilateral
pleural effusion with increased vascular congestion and no
infiltrates.

Total CKs continued to remain elevated, although MBs were 74
and 80 respectively, and indexes were 0.9 and 1.2.  Troponin
levels continued to remain less than 0.3.

Hypoxia was initially attributed to potential volume
overload, so fluids were titrated.  TPN was begun.

The patient's epidural catheter was removed on postoperative
day #3.  The patient underwent MRI of his spine because of
the onset of neurological symptoms of right proximal muscle
weakness and diminished deep tendon reflexes.  The epidural
was removed, and the tip was intact.  The MR [**First Name (Titles) **]
[**Last Name (Titles) 3780**] that this did not show any definite epidural
hematoma.

By postoperative day #3, the patient developed some
thrombocytopenia.  Blood specimen for HIT was sent.  Heparin
was discontinued.  The patient's CK continued to be elevated,
and troponin level was 14.0 on postoperative day #3.  There
were no acute electrocardiogram changes.

Troponin levels over the next 48-72 hours showed definite
decline.  The patient's platelet count improved after
discontinuation of the Heparin.

The patient's clinical status was also compounded with acute
renal failure with an increase in creatinine, peaking to 2.2.
The patient continued to diurese.  Creatinine remained stable
at 2.2.

The PA line was discontinued on postoperative day #5.
Postoperative chest x-ray was without pneumothorax.

The patient had persistent low-grade temperatures.  Sputum
cultures were sent which grew ..............., moderate, and
.................... which were pansensitive.  The patient
was begun on Levofloxacin.

Others obtained the same time included urine culture, blood
cultures, which were no growth, and CD tip culture which grew
greater than 15 colonies of Enterococcus resistant to
Levofloxacin, sensitive to Ampicillin, Penicillin, and
Vancomycin.  There were chest x-ray findings consistent with
bilateral lower lobe atelectasis versus aspiration.

The patient was weaned and extubated on postoperative #8.
The patient passed flatus on postoperative day #9, and clear
sips were begun.  The patient developed some abdominal
distention and nausea, and a KUB was obtained which showed an
ileus.  Ultrasound of the gallbladder and liver was
unremarkable.

A discussion was had with the patient regarding the risks and
benefits of NG tube placement, but the patient continued to
refuse to have NG placed.  He was placed back on NPO, and TPN
was continued.

His renal insufficiency began to show resolution by
postoperative day #12 with a creatinine of 1.9.  On
postoperative day #12, the patient started bowel movements.
Abdomen still remained distended.  He continued to be NPO.
His diet was advanced to clears on postoperative day #13.
Antibiotics of Levofloxacin and Vancomycin were discontinued
on [**4-3**].

The patient was transferred to the regular nursing floor.
The patient continued to show clinical improvement.  His diet
was advanced as tolerated.  His Levofloxacin was not
discontinued because of his pneumonia, and this will be
continued for a total of 14 days from [**2124-4-4**].

Case Management and Physical Therapy evaluated the patient
for discharge planning and rehabilitation.  TPN will be
slowly weaned as the patient tolerates his p.o. intake.  This
should be discontinued at the time of discharge.

Wounds at discharge were clean, dry, and intact.  He should
follow-up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in two weeks.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Albuterol 90 mcg aerosol 2-4 puffs
q.6 hours, Ipratropium Bromide 18 mcg aerosol with adapter 4
puffs q.i.d., Morphine Sulfate 2 mg q.4 hours p.r.n. pain,
Aspirin 325 mg q.d., Reglan 10 mg IV q.6 hours, when the
patient tolerates, this can be converted to p.o. a.c. and
h.s., Metoprolol 100 mg b.i.d., Levofloxacin 500 mg q.24
hours for a total of 14-days from [**2124-4-4**], and this
will be continued until [**4-17**], Nifedipine 30 mg 1 q.d.,
Protonix 40 mg q.d., Fluroxatine 20 mg q.d.

DISCHARGE D