Admission Date:  [**2172-3-30**]       Discharge Date:  [**2172-4-2**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 79-year-old female
with a past medical history significant for coronary artery
disease, status post myocardial infarction in [**2172-4-4**],
osteoporosis, cataracts, asthma, osteoarthritis, who
presented to the Emergency Department from rehabilitation
after being found unresponsive.  She was reportedly not using
her left arm, and had left neglect, at which time the
physician left the room for help, and when he returned, the
patient was on the floor suffering from left-sided
tonic-clonic seizure activity.  The patient did not syncopize
per report.  According to the patient, she recalls having
indigestion, vomited bile, she denied headache, dizziness,
palpitations, shortness of breath.  She did not recall
falling, denied fainting in the past.  She had no other
complaints.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Osteoarthritis.  2. Asthma.  3.
Coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in
[**2169-4-5**].  4. Osteoporosis.  5. Cataracts.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

MEDICATIONS:  1. Albuterol metered dose inhaler.  2. Atrovent
metered dose inhaler.  3. Fluticasone 2 puffs b.i.d.  3.
Theophylline 300 mg b.i.d.  4. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.  5.
Colace p.r.n.  6. Levaquin 500 p.o. q.d. [**3-28**] to [**4-3**].  7.
Indocin 25 mg p.o. q. 8 hours [**3-28**] to [**4-3**].

SOCIAL HISTORY:  At nursing home rehabilitation, previously
lived alone in [**Location (un) 4628**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs showed a fingerstick of
131, blood pressure 123-153/45-69, 100% on one liter nasal
cannula, respiratory rate 15, heart rate in the 40s.  In
general she was lying in bed, pleasant in no apparent
distress.  HEENT:  Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to
light, extraocular movements intact, no nystagmus, oropharynx
was clear with symmetric palate elevation.  Neck:  Jugular
venous pressure was irregular due to AV dissociation, supple.
Cardiovascular:  There was a 2-3/6 systolic ejection murmur
at the left and right sternal borders, no rubs or gallops.
Lungs:  Decreased breath sounds at the left base, occasional
crackles in the bases bilaterally.  Abdomen:  Active bowel
sounds, soft, nontender, nondistended, no organomegaly.
Extremities:  No edema.  Mental status:  Alert to month,
year, not place, stated she was in [**Location (un) **] at rehabilitation.
Neurologic:  Examination was nonfocal.  Palate raised
symmetrically.  There was 3+/5 strength in the intrinsic hand
muscles on the left; 4+/5 on the right intrinsic hand
muscles.  Upper and lower extremity strength was [**6-8**]
bilaterally and symmetric.  Nonfocal examination, no facial
asymmetry, no word-finding difficulty, no pronator drift.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count was 8.3,
hematocrit 31.9, baseline 31.[**2169-12-9**], platelet count
559, MCV 81, neutrophils 69%, bands 0%, lymphocytes 14%,
monocytes 6%.  INR was 1.1.  PTT 27.3, PT 12.8.  Sodium 127,
down from baseline 135, potassium 4.7, chloride 89,
bicarbonate 23, BUN 11, creatinine 1, glucose 116, CK 135, CK
MB 2, troponin less than 0.3.

Head CT without contrast showed no intracranial hemorrhage,
no mass effect, a large foci versus small infarction in the
right occipital lobe, lacunar infarct in the left basal
ganglia region.

EKG showed complete heart block, ventricular rate of 61,
atrial rate of 90, normal axis, QTC 454, QRS 86.  Carotid
ultrasound from [**2169-8-5**] showed mild 60-65% stenosis
proximal left right coronary artery, no hemodynamically
significant plaque in the right bulb or proximal internal
carotid artery.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 79-year-old woman with a
history of coronary artery disease status post myocardial
infarction.  She was admitted after an episode of emesis,
left-sided neglect and seizure activity who was found to be
in complete heart block.  The patient was noted to be
hemodynamically stable during the time in the Emergency
Department with systolic blood pressures in the 120s to 150s
and a ventricular rate ranging from the 40s to the 60s,
without any evidence of distress.  Since it couldn't be
determined as to whether the patient had complete heart block
as the cause of a possible global ischemia leading to the
unmasking of a focal brain lesion leading to the one-sided
deficit, the patient was transferred to the coronary care
unit for a temporary transvenous wire pacer placement.  This
was done on the evening of admission.  The patient had a
right internal jugular placed for this purpose and the
transvenous wire was placed into the right ventricle without
difficulties.  The patient was monitored overnight, and did
not have any hemodynamic instability requiring the pacer to
be utilized.  In the meantime, AV nodal blocking agents
including phenytoin were avoided.  The patient had an EKG
done the following morning and had a transthoracic
echocardiogram.  The transthoracic echocardiogram
demonstrated a left ventricular ejection fraction of greater
than 55%, a sclerotic aortic valve, and some trace mitral
regurgitation.  It was noted that this may be underestimated
due to cardiac echo shadows during the examination.

On the 25th the patient was taken for pacemaker implantation.
The patient had a DDD pacer placed, model 5370, serial
#[**Serial Number 99285**], serial lot #[**Serial Number 99286**].  The patient withstood the
procedure without difficulty, and subsequent to pacer
placement, had a chest x-ray which demonstrated the leads to
be in the appropriate position.  The pacer was interrogated
and found to be in good working condition.  Subsequent to
pacer placement, the patient's heart rate elevated to the 80s
and 90s, and her systolic blood pressure was consistently in
the 140s to 160s.  Thus it was determined in the setting of
this new hypertension, the patient was initiated on a beta
blocker on [**4-2**].  She was started on atenolol 25 q.d.

As for the potential seizure, neurology was consulted in the
Emergency Department.  It was determined that the complete
heart block would take precedence over the possible
neurological event.  As stated previously on admission, a CT
of the head did not demonstrate any new evidence of infarct
or bleed, and even in the Emergency Department there was no
evidence of left-sided neglect, and only possible mild
decreased strength in the intrinsic hand muscles on the left,
otherwise her examination was nonfocal.  She was scheduled
for an EEG.

Due to the evidence of possible lacunar infarcts in the past
in addition to a possible transient ischemic attack which
could have explained the brief period of left-sided neglect
as well as seizure activity, it was determined to start the
patient on pravastatin 20 mg q.d. since the patient was
likely at risk for microvascular disease, especially in light
of her previous myocardial infarction.  A lipid panel was
sent, and demonstrated levels within normal limits such as
triglycerides 83, HDL 51 and LDL 96.  Of course it may be
slightly depressed in the setting of an acute event.  The
patient also had carotid Dopplers performed, at this time the
final [**Location (un) 1131**] is not available, but suggested that there was
still significant plaque in the left internal carotid artery
with narrowing of approximately 60-69%, but no significant
plaques in the right internal carotid artery.  There was also
normal antegrade flow in the vertebral arteries.  Any further
neurological work-up was deferred as an outpatient.

Also in this setting there was concern that the hyponatremia,
if it occurred rapidly, could have also played a role in her
seizure activity.  But her baseline sodium had previously
been low, approximately 135.  Urine and electrolytes were
sent and a TSH was sent, though it was assumed that the
patient had recently had a few days of Lasix in the past and
may have just been volume depleted.  She was thus given
normal saline with appropriate correction of her sodium to
the mid-130s.

For her asthma the patient was continued on the Flovent
metered dose inhalers b.i.d., albuterol and Atrovent p.r.n.,
and her theophylline was held briefly due to mildly elevated
theophylline.  It was 