Admission Date:  [**2126-6-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2126-6-18**]


Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Sudden onset of shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 76-year-old
female with a history of type 2 diabetes, 3-vessel coronary
artery disease, and a preserved ejection fraction of 60%, as
well as mild diastolic dysfunction who presents with the
above complaints as well as diaphoresis and nausea which
occurred suddenly while she was taking her morning
medications in her bathroom.  At this time she also felt her
heart was increased.  She called the Emergency Medical
Services who arrived and placed her on BiPAP with settings of
10 and 5, 1 inch of nitroglycerin paste, and gave her
morphine, oxygen, as well as 50 mg of Lasix with 300 cc of
urine output.

On arrival at the [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Room she received another 80 mg of Lasix, and her
BiPAP was weaned to 100% nonrebreather with saturations
greater than 99%.  She was admitted to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit on the Coronary Care Unit service where she was
rapidly weaned to 4 liters of nasal cannula without
desaturation and maintained a stable respiratory rate in the
low 20s.  At this time she denied any history of chest pain,
dietary indiscretion as far as salt intake, orthopnea or a
prior event similar to those which brought her to the
hospital.  With her prior cardiac ischemia she has had only
nausea in the past.  She has no history of paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea or cough, although she does report some
left lower extremity swelling which has been stable since
vascular surgery but is also reporting new onset right lower
extremity edema which she has not previously noticed.  She
also orthopnea but uses two pillows at home for comfort.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes mellitus times 20
years.  Last hemoglobin A1c was 9.1.
 2.  Peripheral vascular disease including a right femoral to
peroneal bypass and transmetatarsal amputation in [**2123-12-20**] which was reportedly occluded in [**2124-8-18**].
She also has a left femoral to dorsalis pedis bypass which
was patent as of [**2124-8-18**].
 3.  History of mild chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
She has no pulmonary function tests on record.  The only

description of this diagnosis is that it is mild.  She has no
tobacco history .
 4.  Recurrent lower extremity cellulitis.
 5.  Degenerative joint disease.
 6.  Hypertension.
 7.  Status post cholecystectomy.
 8.  Total abdominal hysterectomy.
 9.  Right hip fracture in [**2119**].
10.  Left hip fracture in [**2123**].
11.  Left humeral fracture in [**2121**].
12.  C4-C5 spinal stenosis.
13.  Coronary artery disease with 3-vessel disease previously
described as not amenable to coronary artery bypass graft.
Baseline electrocardiogram showed inferior and anterior
Q waves as well as ST elevation anteriorly.  Cardiac
catheterization in [**2126-3-19**] performed for an isolated
troponin leak showed an ejection fraction of 60%, apical
akinesis, a left ventricular end-diastolic pressure of 14,
right coronary arteries showed diffuse disease, left coronary
arteries in this left dominant system showed an left anterior
descending artery lesion of 80% proximally, 60% mid left
anterior descending artery, and 90% distally.  Left
circumflex showed a 50% lesion in the mid circumflex and a
70% lesion in the distal circumflex.  There was diffuse
disease in first obtuse marginal and second obtuse marginal
with up to 70% lesion.  The left posterior descending artery
was normal.  She had mild diastolic dysfunction.  An
echocardiogram performed in [**2126-3-19**] showed left atrial
enlargement.  Dimensions were 5.6 cm X 3.9 cm.  She had a
normal right atrium.  She had symmetric mild left ventricular
hypertrophy.  No wall motion abnormalities were described.
Delayed relaxation, trivial mitral regurgitation, and trivial
tricuspid regurgitation.  As well, mild thickening of the AV
was noted; however, this was a suboptimal study.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has never smoked.  Has had
distant social alcohol use, none currently.  Denied any other
substance use including intravenous drug abuse.  She lives
with her 80-year-old sister.

FAMILY HISTORY:  She has another sister with coronary artery
disease.  Her father died of a myocardial infarction at 69.
Her mother died of coronary artery disease at age 67, and she
has another brother with coronary artery disease.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN gives her a rash, TETRACYCLINE gives
her gastrointestinal upset.  She has another nonspecific
allergy reported to TERBUTALINE.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications include
lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d., Imdur 30 mg p.o. q.d.,
enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d., Tums 500 mg p.o.
q.d., multivitamin p.o. q.d., NPH insulin 17 units q.a.m. and
10 units q.p.m., atenolol 75 mg p.o. q.d. (this was increased
from 50 mg p.o. q.d. one week prior to admission).

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She denies symptoms of urinary tract
infections.  She has been drinking seven to eight glasses of
water a day in an attempt to improve her health.  She denies
abdominal pain.  She does have nausea which is resolving.
She denies vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation.  She reports
some arthritic leg pain.  She denies rash.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  On physical examination,
she was saturating 97% on 3 liters and 89% on room air.
Pulse was 66, blood pressure was 143/55, temperature was 97
degrees, respiratory rate was 18 to 20.  In general, she was
an obese elderly female in no acute distress.  HEENT
examination showed no jugular venous distention.  Mucous
membranes were moist.  The patient was edentulous.  Pupils
were sluggish but equal, round, and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements were intact.  Cranial nerves II through
XII were intact.  Cardiovascular examination was obscured by
her breath sounds but showed a regular rate and rhythm with
normal S1 and S2, and potentially a [**11-24**] murmur at her left
lower sternal border.  Lung examination showed good air
movement but loud coarse breath sounds including expiratory
grumbles and wheezes and some inspiratory crackles, right
greater than left, at the bases which were decreased since
evaluation in the Emergency Room.  Extremities showed a right
transmetatarsal amputation, several left toe amputations.
Surgical scars from her bypass procedures.  No cyanosis or
clubbing.  She had a good pulse in her left bypass graft but
none in her dorsalis pedis or posterior tibialis on either
side.  She had prominent pitting edema to slightly above her
knees.

LABORATORY ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count was 11.6,
hemoglobin 15, hematocrit 45.8, platelets 237.  Sodium 139,
potassium 3.8, chloride 102, bicarbonate 24, BUN 16,
creatinine 0.7, glucose 277.  Calcium 8.8, magnesium 1.8,
phosphorous 4.9.  PT 12.3, INR 1, PTT 23.5.  Creatine kinase
was 58 on admission.  Troponin returned at less than 0.3.
Urinalysis was positive for nitrites, negative for white
blood cells and showed few bacteria.  Lipid profile obtained
in [**2126-3-19**] showed an LDL of 85, an HDL of 43, a
triglycerides of 60.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray was obtained in the lordotic
position and was also rotated which showed an elevated left
hemidiaphragm secondary to a large amount of gastric air.
There was left costophrenic angle blunting.  The right was
not included in the x-ray.  She had a central alveolar
pattern in her lung fields, consistent with congestive heart
failure.

Electrocardiogram at baseline the patient has Q waves and ST
elevations in V2 through V3 as well as T wave flattening in
V5 through V6 and I.  She also has Q waves in inferior leads
III and F as well as V1 and V4.  On admission she was in
sinus tachycardia at 111, had a normal axis, and had ST
elevations in V1 through V4, had T wave inversions and
flattening in the same leads, left atrial enlargement,
possibly a right atrial abnormality, Q waves in II, III, F,
V1 through V5; 40 minutes later the patient was in a sinus
rhythm at 81, axis was 0, ST elevations had decreased in V1
through V3, and she had one premature ventricular
contraction.

IMPRESSION:  Impression at that time was that this w