Admission Date:  [**2133-10-3**]       Discharge Date:  [**2133-12-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2068-1-29**]       Sex:  M

Service:  MICU
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65-year-old
male admitted to [**Hospital6 256**] on
[**10-3**] from [**Hospital3 4419**] with shortness of
breath.  The patient apparently had vomited while eating at
the rehabilitation center and was felt to have an aspiration
Levofloxacin and Clindamycin with a white blood cell count of
16.9 on admission.  The patient was also noted to have ST
depressions laterally and subsequently ruled in for a
non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.

The patient was initially managed medically and given concern
for infection (aspiration pneumonia).  On [**10-12**], the
have sustained another non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.  The
patient was intubated.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was
placed, and the patient was transferred to the CCU.

The patient has known coronary artery disease (three-vessel
disease) and underwent a two-vessel coronary artery bypass
grafting on [**2133-10-13**].  The patient was extubated on
[**2133-10-15**].  The patient was treated with Levofloxacin
and Vancomycin for ten days given the history of aspiration
pneumonia and MRSA positive sputum.  The patient had
bilateral pleural effusions postoperative and had chest tubes
placed bilaterally.  The pleural fluid was not evaluated.

CT Surgery course was notable for postoperative atrial
fibrillation on postoperative day #10 and treated with
Amiodarone.  PEG was placed by IR on [**10-23**].  The patient
was felt to be volume overloaded postoperatively and was
treated with Lasix 80 mg IV b.i.d. and Diuril 250 mg IV
b.i.d.

The patient responded well to this regimen.  The patient
later suffered right lung collapse when the chest tube was
placed water seal.  The lung did not reexpand when chest tube
was placed to suction.  The patient had the right chest tube,
and a second was placed with reexpansion of right lung.  The
patient then underwent bronchoscopy on [**11-3**] which
revealed copious secretions.  No mass or mucous plug was
visualized.

On [**11-4**], the patient was transferred to the SICU
Service.  The patient was noted to have elevation in BUN and
creatinine (95/2.5).  FENA was less than 1, and urine osmosis
was elevated.  The patient was felt to have prerenal
azotemia.  The patient received intravenous fluids, and
diuretics were held until [**11-12**].  The patient gradually
became more tachypneic with increasing oxygen requirement
initially on approximately 70% FIO2 shovel mask with
respiration rate in the 30s.  Over the next few days, the
patient had been placed on BIPAP with improvement on
oxygenation and has also been on 100% non-rebreather.

On [**11-7**], the patient had underwent a right Doxycycline
pleurodesis with no repeated lung collapse.  On [**11-8**],
the sputum grew Staphylococcus aureus, and the patient was
restarted on Vancomycin.  On [**2133-11-12**], the patient
was transferred to the MICU Service from the SICU Service for
further management of his respiratory distress.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.  Coronary artery
disease with OM stent in [**2127**] and a two-vessel coronary
artery bypass grafting on [**10-13**].  3.  Insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus.  4.  Prostate cancer.  5.  Chronic renal
insufficiency.  6.  Multiple lacunar infarcts.  7.
Hypercholesterolemia.  8.  Gait disorder.  9.  Right-sided
weakness.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Vancomycin, NPH Insulin 12 U subcue
b.i.d., regular Insulin sliding scale, Epogen 10,000 U subcue
q.Wednesday, ASA 81 mg q.d., Zoloft 25 mg q.d., Lipitor 20 mg
q.h.s., Lopressor 50 mg t.i.d., Amiodarone 400 mg q.d.,
Hydralazine 25 mg q.6, Clonidine patch 0.2 mg, free water
bolus at 250 cc b.i.d., Zantac 150 mg q.d., Iron Sulfate 325
mg t.i.d., Zinc 220 mg q.d., Vitamin C 500 mg q.d.,
........... 10 drops b.i.d., Nepro 35 cc/hr, ProMod 35 cc/hr.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married.  He smoked one pack
per day times 30 years and quit ten years ago.  His primary
care physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**First Name (STitle) 3510**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission to the MICU
temperature was 97.5?????? with a T-max of 98.6??????, blood pressure
118/43 to 140/53, heart rate 60-70, respirations 30, 100%
oxygen non-rebreather, oxygen saturation 95%, 24-hour I&Os at
4380 in, 1300 out.  HEENT:  Pupils 2 mm constricted to light.
Sclera anicteric.  Neck:  Supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  JVP
9-10 cm (5 cm above the sternal notch).  Chest:  Diffuse
rhonchi.  No crackles or wheezing.  Sternum healing well.
Cardiovascular:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and S2.
No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  Warm.
Pedal edema 1+.  Skin breakdown over the right shin.  Sacral
ulcer, healing.  Neurological:  Opens eyes to verbal stimuli.
Not communicative.

LABORATORY DATA:  Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus
rhythm at 70 beats per minute with normal axis, normal
intervals, and T-wave inversions in V5 and V6 with a Q-wave
in leads III.  Chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure
with left lower lobe collapse and pleural effusions
bilaterally.  Echocardiogram on [**10-23**] showed a left
atrium of 4.1 cm and an ejection fraction of 45-55%.

WBC was 16.5, hemoglobin 8.1, hematocrit 24.8, platelet count
240; sodium 141, potassium 5.9, chloride 112, bicarb 22, BUN
103, creatinine 2.7, glucose 113, phosphate 24, magnesium
2.4; arterial blood gases on 100% non-rebreather showed a
7.35/37/70; sputum on [**11-7**] and 25 showed MRSA
positive.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 65-year-old man with a
complicated hospital course.  The patient was admitted with
likely aspiration pneumonia, non-Q-wave myocardial infarction
and underwent coronary artery bypass grafting and initially
did well.  The patient was diuresed regular, but over the
last few days before admission to the MICU, had an elevation
in BUN and creatinine.  The patient was felt to be volume
depleted and was treated with intravenous fluids and
withholding diuretics.

The patient then gradually had a worsened respiratory status
with increasing oxygen requirement and decreased
responsiveness.  Chest x-ray had revealed the vascular
congestion which supported fluid overload.  The patient also
had copious secretions on bronchoscopy on [**11-7**] with a
history of recurrent aspiration, left lower lobe collapse and
consolidation, as well as elevated WBC which supported
possible incompletely treated aspiration pneumonia.  Physical
exam at the time of MICU admission was not impressive for
overload.  JVP was not elevated.  There was no peripheral
edema, and chest exam was not impressive for wet crackles.
The patient's respiratory decline was gradually progressive
and not acute.

While in the MICU, the patient was placed on BIPAP.  The
patient had poor tidal volumes and increased respiration rate
and had continued copious secretions.  The patient was
eventually intubated on [**11-13**].  The patient then had a
bronchoscopy which removed a significant amount of
secretions, as well as revealed white plaques in the trachea
which was deemed to be likely candidal infection.  The
patient was then started on Fluconazole and completed a 7-day
course.

He also completed an 8-day course of Flagyl, as well as
Ceftriaxone for presumed aspiration pneumonia.  In addition,
he completed a 14-day course of Vancomycin for MRSA positive
sputum.

From a cardiovascular standpoint, the patient has coronary
artery disease status post two-vessel coronary artery bypass
grafting during this admission.  The patient while in the
hospital was continued on Aspirin, Lopressor, and loaded on
Amiodarone given postoperative atrial fibrillation.

On [**11-16**] a chest CT was obtained which revealed
bilateral loculations, left greater than right, with collapse
of left lung and bilateral pleural effusions, as well as a
left upper lobe consolidation and fluid in the anterior
pericardium with some air extending up into the mediastinum.

A left thoracentesis was performed, and pleural fluid labs
were only significant for transudativ