Admission Date:  [**2161-2-13**]       Discharge Date:  [**2161-3-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2119-3-30**]       Sex:  M

Service:

ADDENDUM:  This is a continuation of the Discharge Summary
which was cut off.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS CONTINUED:  On the day of
admission, the patient was seen by his primary care physician
with inability to control his bladder and was noted to have
decreased ankle flexion.  The patient denied nausea,
vomiting, shortness of breath, abdominal pain, or chest pain.
The patient described feeling like his muscles were
"seizing" around his torso.

At the time of presentation, the patient complained of
inability to move his left leg and urinary incontinence.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  On review of systems, the patient denies
weight loss.  Positive for fatigue.  He denies fevers,
chills, or night sweats.  Positive for anorexia.  The patient
denies any visual symptoms.  The patient denies any dry mouth
or tinnitus.  The patient denies chest pain, orthopnea,
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, shortness of breath, or cough.
The patient complains of some abdominal pain and
constipation.  The patient complaints of some urinary
incontinence.  Denies frequency, urgency, or pain.  He denies
a rash or weight change.  Positive numbness, weakness, and
paresthesias in extremities.  No dizziness, vertigo,
confusion, or headache.  The patient denies depression.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (The patient's has a past medical
history significant for)
1.  Human immunodeficiency virus positive times 15 years (on
highly active antiretroviral therapy).
2.  L5-S1 herniated disk.
3.  Longstanding prior history of tuberculosis exposure.
4.  Hepatitis C.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  The patient's medications included
Combivir, Sustiva, dapsone.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has an allergy to SULFA.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient smokes one pack per day times 24
years.  No ethanol.  Remote intravenous drug use.  The
patient has two children.  He is in process of a divorce.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Stroke in maternal grandmother.  [**Name (NI) **] central
nervous system tumors.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
revealed the patient's temperature was 97, heart rate was
129, blood pressure was 147/84, respiratory rate was 18,
oxygen saturation was 98% on room air.  In general, the
patient was pleasant and interactive.  In no acute distress.
Somewhat cachectic.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.  Mucous
membranes were moist.  No thyromegaly.  No cervical
lymphadenopathy.  The patient was without any carotid bruits.
Pulmonary examination revealed clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  No crackles or wheezes.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed the patient was tachycardic, but
regular.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  The abdomen was
soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Bowel sounds were
present.  Extremities revealed the patient moved all four
extremities.  Upper extremity pulses were 2+ and symmetric.
Skin revealed no rash.  Mental status examination revealed
the patient was fully alert and oriented.  The patient was
able to name, register, and recall.  No apraxia or neglect
appreciated.  Cranial nerve examination revealed pupils were
equal, round, and reactive to light at 3 mm.  Extraocular
movements were intact.  No nystagmus.  The remainder of
cranial nerve examination was unremarkable.  The patient with
normal tone.  His strength was full in the upper extremities.
The patient was able to raise right leg against gravity, but
only movement in one plane on the left.  No pronator drift.
Deep tendon reflexes were symmetric but absent at the ankles
bilaterally.  The patient's toes were upgoing bilaterally.
Sensory examination revealed decrease to soft tissue and
pinprick up to the T6 level.  Finger-to-nose and rapid
alternating movements were intact.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The patient was ordered for a STAT
magnetic resonance imaging.  The magnetic resonance imaging
showed degenerative joint disease at the L5-S1 level.  Of
note, and epidural mass was found posterior to the thecal sac
at the T4 level extending from the area of the T3-T4 disks to
the upper portion of T5.  The mass had a superior/inferior
dimension of 3.5 cm.  Of particular importance, there was
found to be greater than 50% narrowing of the spinal canal
and moderate compression of the spinal cord.  Also of note
was an area of increased signal within the spinal cord at the
T5 level with likely edema.  The mass was found to extend to
the right neural foramina at the T4-T5 level.  Otherwise, the
patient's cervical and lumbar spine were unremarkable.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was taken emergently to the
operating room where an extensive epidural tumor in the
midthoracic spine (as previously described by magnetic
resonance imaging) was noted.  Erosion to the lamina and to
the paraspinous muscles was noted.  The tumor was found to be
extremely vascular.  Please see the Operative Report for
further details of the thoracic laminectomy for described
tumor.

The patient did well after the operative procedure.  He
started to slowly regain strength in the lower extremity.
Pathology with preliminary diagnosis of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

An Oncology consultation was obtained.  The Oncology staff
recommended further staging including a gallium scan,
computed tomography scan of the torso, bowel movement, and
lumbar puncture.

The computed tomography of the chest showed small precarinal
lymph nodes, small lymph node on the left side measuring
1.3 cm X 1.1 cm, and no evidence of hilar lymphadenopathy.  A
small granuloma of the right lung base was found.  Otherwise,
the scan was unremarkable.

A lumbar puncture was performed showing 1 white blood cells,
3 red blood cells, protein of 29, glucose of 69, LDH of 12.
Differential showed 30% polys, 62% lymphocytes, 10%
monocytes; otherwise unremarkable.

As staging for non-Hodgkin lymphoma was being performed, and
the patient was preparing for discharge and outpatient
management of current diagnosis, the patient was found
overnight (on [**2161-2-23**]) to have two episodes of
liquid maroon-colored stools.  The patient had been
completely asymptomatic prior.  The patient's hematocrit on
[**2-22**] was 24.5; and on [**2-23**] had fallen to 17.9.
The episodes of dark maroon stools were associated with some
left-sided abdominal pain.   The patient denied chest pain,
nausea, and vomiting.  The patient received 2 units of packed
red blood cells.  The patient received an additional
transfusion to keep his hematocrit greater than 30% and was
started on high-dose proton pump inhibitor.

The patient received an upper endoscopy.  The patient's
esophagus was of normal appearance.  A single cratered
nonbleeding 1-cm ulcer with a clean base was found in the
stomach body along the greater curvature.  No blood was seen
in the stomach.  In the duodenum, red blood was seen beyond
the ligament of Treitz in the third and fourth parts of the
duodenum and jejunum.  The jejunum was explored to 150 cm at
the starting point of the incisors.  No localizing source of
the patient's bleeding was appreciated.

An arteriogram of the superior mesenteric artery, superior
mesenteric artery, and three jejunal branches, celiac and
internal mammary artery inferior mesenteric artery were
without evidence of active bleeding.

The patient's hematocrit did not bump appropriately to the
packed red blood cell infusion.  The patient was taken for
intravenous injection of tagged red blood cell scan.  The
results showed extravasation of red blood cells into the
patient's jejunum; consistent with a jejunal gastrointestinal
bleed.

The patient was taken back to angiography.  This time, active
extravasation of contrast was found from a bleeding jejunal
branch of the superior mesenteric artery in the left lower
quadrant.  The bleeding jejunal branches were successfully
coiled with full resolution of the bleeding.  However, the
patient's hematocrit continued to tend downward from a post
procedure hematocrit of 28 to a hematocrit of 21 with large
bloody bowel movements.

The patient was taken back for a tagged red blood cell scan
which showed an active bleed