Admission Date:  [**2101-9-15**]       Discharge Date:  [**2101-10-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2052-4-4**]       Sex:  F

Service:  GOLD SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 49-year-old
woman with a history of Crohn's disease for about 12 years.
She is status post Billroth type II gastrotomy with
subsequently multiple abdominal surgeries, including a
Roux-en-Y for biliary drainage.  These surgical interventions
were all the consequence for initial peptic ulcer disease
treatment.

She was recently discharged on [**2101-9-13**], from [**Hospital6 1760**] for nausea, vomiting,
abdominal pain, fevers, and bacteremia for which she is
currently still under treatment.

She presented again to the Emergency Room with worsening
nausea and vomiting with diarrhea and biliary emesis.  She
was originally scheduled for a revision of her Roux-en-Y by
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] on [**2101-9-23**].

After Emergency Room evaluation, she was admitted initially
to the Medicine Service for management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Peptic ulcer disease status post
Billroth II, Roux-en-Y to common bile duct, times two
revisions of gastrojejunostomy secondary to anastomotic
stenosis, status post microperforation leading to abdominal
abscess, status post EGD and small bowel follow through which
showed short Roux limb with reflux into the stomach and
stenosis in the efferent limb.  2.  Anemia of chronic
disease.  3.  VRE.  4.  Chronic TPN.  5.  History of
fungemia.  6.  History of vertebral fracture with steroid
use.  7.  Osteoporosis.  8.  Femoral fracture.  9.
Appendectomy.  10.  Cholecystectomy.  11.  Chronic diarrhea.

ALLERGIES:  THE PATIENT IS ALLERGIC TO SULFA.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lasix 10 mg q.d., Dilaudid 8 mg
q.3-4 hours p.r.n., Ativan, Protonix 40 mg q.d.,
............... 1 g q.i.d., Compazine 10 mg q.d., Vitamin D
50,000 U every Friday, Fentanyl patch 225 mcg q.72 hours,
continued Zosyn 4.5 g q.4 hours for bacteremia.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  On admission exam showed a
middle-aged woman in no acute distress.  Vital signs:  She
was afebrile with a temperature of 98.4??????, heart rate 77,
blood pressure 105/52, respirations 12, oxygen saturation 98%
on room air.  Head:  Nontraumatic.  Pupils equal, round and
reactive to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Heart:
Normal rate and rhythm with normal heart sounds.  There was
no murmur.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen:  The patient had extensive surgical scars, diffusely
tender without any rebound.  Extremities:  No peripheral
edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count was
5.5, hematocrit 31, platelet count 309,000; sodium 139,
potassium 3.9, chloride 105, bicarb 23, BUN 15, creatinine
0.3, blood sugar 96.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Service with management of her symptoms of nausea and
vomiting.  During the course, a series of blood cultures and
urinalyses were performed, and the result of these cultures
remained negative.  The patient's condition improved over
approximately a week of the hospital stay.  Therefore, she
was brought to the Operating Room on [**9-23**] for a
scheduled revision of her Roux-en-Y procedure.

Given the patient's history of her problems with biliary
vomiting, inability to tolerate food intake since her gastric
operations, and her multiple surgical procedures, and the
most recent endoscopy showed that there was a finding of
segment in the Roux of only 8 or 9 cm long which probably led
to significant reflux problems, she was then scheduled to
have takedown of Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy of recreation of
another Roux-en-Y gastrojejunostomy with feeding tube placed
in the jejunum.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.
The operation had an estimated blood loss of 200 cc, and the
patient was subsequently transferred to the Postsurgical
Intensive Care Unit intubated and sedated.

She remained in the SICU from on postoperative day #1 to on
postoperative day #10 where she was successfully extubated on
postoperative day #4.  Blood culture monitoring and sputum
culture obtained in the unit showed that she had bacteremia
with coag negative staph.  In her sputum there was growth of
pseudomonas.  She was covered with intravenous antibiotics of
Vancomycin, Ceftazidime and Ciprofloxacin.

Her stay in the SICU was essentially noneventful where she
remained on tube feeds and TPN.  Her drainage tubes provided
adequate wound drainage.  On postoperative day #10, she was
found to have enough drainage where a cutaneous fistula was
suspected.  Therefore, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] of the Surgical Service was
consulted, and based on their consultation, she was continued
with close monitoring of her nutrition status, and her TPN
and tube feeds were also adjusted according to her nutrition
needs.

Over the course of the hospital stay, her surgical wound
continued to improve with decreased level of drainage, and
therefore, there was no surgical repair performed.

She is somewhat difficult to manage for her pain control
issues.  She was placed on a prolonged time of
patient-controlled anesthesia with Dilaudid, and on the day
prior to discharge, she was placed on her preadmission
regimen of Dilaudid by mouth with 8 mm every 3-4 hours as
needed which appears to provide enough coverage for her pain
issue.

She is planned to be discharged to a rehabilitation facility
where her nutritional status can be closely monitored and her
wound care can be adequately provided.  The plan is to
continue her tube feeds and possibly continue TPN on an
outpatient basis.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Clonidine TTS-3 patch every Tuesday,
Protonix 40 q.d., .................. 100 mcg t.i.d.,
..................1 g q.i.d., Cholestyramine 0.5 pack t.i.d.,
Albuterol inhaler 4-6 puffs every 4 hours p.r.n., Fentanyl
patch 225 mcg/hr every 72 hours, Zofran 2 mg p.r.n.,
Promethazine 25 mg q.6 hours p.r.n., Colace 100 mg b.i.d.,
Zinc Sulfate 200 mg q.d., Insulin sliding scale, Albuterol
nebulizer every 4-6 hours as needed, Dilaudid 8 mg q.4-6
hours p.r.n., tube feeds, TPN.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Fair.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To rehabilitation facility with service.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Status post revision of Roux-en-Y
gastrojejunostomy.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 11889**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info 33844**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2101-10-25**]  13:35
T:  [**2101-10-25**]  15:16
JOB#:  [**Job Number 33845**]
