Admission Date:  [**2150-5-1**]       Discharge Date:  [**2150-5-10**]

Date of Birth:   [**2098-2-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

The patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit
Service on [**5-1**] and was transferred from the Intensive
Care Unit service to the [**Hospital1 139**] Service on [**2150-5-6**],
and planned for discharge on [**2150-5-12**].

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Altered mental status.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   This is a 52 year old woman
with a history of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and a
history of self-induced hypoglycemic episodes, who presented
on [**2150-5-1**], to [**Hospital1 69**]
with agitation and altered mental status.  The EMS checked
her fingerstick which was about 102 at that time.  She was
brought to [**Hospital1 69**] Emergency
Room for evaluation.

In the Emergency Department, her fingerstick was about 400.
She was given Ativan, Versed and Haldol, 7 mg of Droperidol
and insulin 10 units.  She underwent a lumbar puncture at
that time with her cerebral spinal fluid showing 24 white
blood cells, 350 red blood cells, 70 protein, 152 glucose
with 81% neutrophils, 1% band and 14% lymphocytes.  She got
dexamethasone 10 mg intravenously, Ceftriaxone 2 grams
intravenously, Vancomycin 1 gram intravenously, Acyclovir 500
mg intravenously and Toradol.   After getting all this
medication, she dropped her systolic blood pressure to the
90s and received several liters of intravenous fluid and was
thought to have aspirated.

She also got Dilantin due to a question of some seizures.
She was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit on the
night of [**5-1**] and early morning of [**5-2**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus for 13 years with
multiple episodes of self-induced hypoglycemia as attention
seeking behavior.
2.  Migraine headaches relieved with Fioricet.
3.  Depression.
4.  Dementia with memory difficulties that have been
progressing through recent years.

Her primary care physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 7516**] at [**Hospital 8503**].

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

HOME MEDICATIONS:
1.  Insulin.
2.  Fioricet.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   She is divorced with two children.  Her son
is in [**Doctor First Name 1191**] for heroin abuse.  She has one other son who is
very involved in her care.  She lives alone.  She smokes one
pack per day.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Son has heroin abuse; otherwise unknown.

While in the Medical Intensive Care Unit she was treated
presumptively with Vancomycin, Ceftriaxone and Acyclovir for
meningitis, encephalitis and aspiration pneumonia.  The
patient became hypoxic.  Chest x-ray showed congestive heart
failure and left retrocardiac opacity.  Bronchoscopy was
performed but was unrevealing.  The patient self-extubated
after bronchoscopy and remained stable, however, still
requiring oxygen via face mask.  She was eventually weaned
off the face mask onto nasal cannula.

A repeat lumbar puncture was performed on [**5-5**] showing
one white blood cell, eight red blood cells.  At that time,
the culture from the first lumbar puncture came back
negative.  The Vancomycin and Ceftriaxone were discontinued.
Levofloxacin was started for treatment of pneumonia.
Acyclovir was continued for herpes simplex virus
encephalitis/meningitis.  Herpes simplex virus PCR was sent
on the second sample of cerebrospinal fluid from the [**5-5**] lumbar puncture.  It eventually came back negative.  The
patient received a ten day course of Acyclovir which was then
discontinued due to the negative PCR.

While in the Medical Intensive Care Unit she was also given
intravenous Lasix for effective diuresis with improvement in
her O2 saturation.

She was evaluated by Psychiatric who recommended adding
multivitamins, thiamine, and folate to her medication regimen
given concern for alcohol use.  They also recommended Haldol
for her agitation and further medical work-up.

She was also seen by Neurology, whose impression was that
this was encephalitis and to continue treating and also to
rule out other metabolic etiology such as myocardial
infarction, adrenal insufficiency, thyroid disease.  They
agreed with the thiamine and folate supplementation.

LABORATORY:  Data on admission was white blood cell count of
20.4, hematocrit 37.6 with 91% neutrophils, 7% lymphocytes.
Platelet count was 333.  INR 1.1, PTT 29.1.

Urinalysis showed 250 glucose, 50 ketones.  Serum sodium of
143, potassium 3.8, chloride 107, bicarbonate 23, BUN 12,
creatinine 0.6, glucose 122, calcium 7.8, phosphate 2.3,
magnesium 1.7.  ALT was 40, AST was 68, which increased
slightly.  LDH was 278, alkaline phosphatase was 93.  Total
bilirubin was 0.4.

Due to the increase in ALT and AST, hepatitis panel was done.
Hepatitis C virus antibodies was negative.  Hepatitis B
surface antigen and surface antibodies were both negative.
ANCA was negative.  [**Doctor First Name **] was positive with 1:80 titer.  HIV
antibodies was negative.  Vitamin B12 came back at 1071.
Folate was normal at 10.2.  Thyroid stimulating hormone was
0.96.  Free T4 level was 1.2.  Cortisol stimulation test
pre-stimulation was 9.0, at 30 minutes was 26.7; at 60
minutes was 36.6.  Serum toxicology screen and urine
toxicology screen were both positive for barbiturates due to
the Fioricet for her headaches.

RPR was negative.  CK and troponin were sent off as well and
the patient had a troponin leak of 8.2, which subsequently
decreased to less than 0.3.

Cardiology consultation was obtained.  They recommended a
transthoracic echocardiogram which showed normal left
ventricular wall thickness and cavity sizes.  Due to
sub-optimal technical quality, a focal wall motion
abnormality cannot be fully excluded.  Overall left
ventricular systolic function is normal, greater than 55%
ejection fraction.  Right ventricular chamber size and free
wall motion were normal.  Aortic valve leaflets were mildly
thickened.  No masses or vegetations were seen.  No aortic
valve stenosis or regurgitation. The echocardiogram was
essentially normal.

They recommended continuing with aspirin and continuing to
follow troponin.  They recommended outpatient follow-up for
cardiac issues in one month.  The patient remained
asymptomatic without chest pain or hemodynamic instability.

Her mental status improved throughout the Intensive Care Unit
stay.  Herpes simplex virus two antibodies were negative.
Herpes simplex virus one IgG was positive, showing previous
exposures.

EEG showed encephalopathy but no seizure activity.  Influenza
B was negative.  RSV antigen was negative.  BAL cultures were
negative.  Urine cultures were negative times two.  Blood
cultures were negative.  Legionella urinary antigen was
negative.  Insulin A was negative.

MRI of the head was negative.  CT scan of the head was
negative.

Bartonella IgG and IgM were sent off which were still pending
at the time of this dictation.

The patient was transferred to the Floor and continued to
improve, although her mental status did not get back to her
baseline.  The patient had very poor insight into her
illness.  She remained not oriented to month and day and
demanded to go home.  She was deemed not competent and
incapable of taking care of herself given her cognitive
deficits and the fact that she lives home alone.

The patient refused to consider any other options.  She
finished a ten day course of antibiotics including
ceftriaxone, Vancomycin and Levofloxacin for presumed
pneumonia.  Her congestive heart failure resolved with stable
O2 saturation on room air.

She was evaluated by Physical Therapy who felt that she had
no physical therapy issues.  She was also evaluated by
Occupational Therapy who felt that she had cognitive deficits
that would prevent her from taking care of herself at home.

[**Last Name (un) **] consultation was obtained who gave their input in
formulating an insulin regimen for the patient.

A family meeting was scheduled for [**2150-5-11**] to
determine the safest disposition for the patient.

The patient's discharge condition, medications, and plan will
be dictated in an addendum by [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 805**]