Admission Date:  [**2167-2-16**]       Discharge Date:  [**2167-2-24**]

Date of Birth:   [**2099-5-5**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath, cough, and fever.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 67 -year-old
Russian speaking female with a past medical history
significant for diabetes type II, congestive heart failure of
unknown etiology, and hypertension.  The patient presents
with a three day history of progressively worsening shortness
of breath and dyspnea on exertion, wheezing, nonproductive
cough, and fever to 102 F on the day prior to admission.  Per
patient's husband, she denies any nausea or vomiting, chills
at night, night sweats, or chest pain.  She denies diarrhea.
She has been constipated.  The patient does have paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea and two pillow orthopnea.  The patient
denies dysuria.  Fingersticks at home have been running
approximately 200 to 270's.  The patient denies any sick
contacts.

On the morning of presentation, the patient was noted to be
more lethargic by her husband.  [**Name (NI) **] report, her oxygen
saturation upon arrival of the EMS, was in the 80's.  The
patient was placed on 100% nonrebreather and arrived at [**Hospital3 **] - [**Hospital **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] where she was noted to be
wheezing on examination.  She was given Albuterol and
Atrovent nebulizers with improvement of her oxygen saturation
from 90% to 94%, also on 100% nonrebreather.  She was also
administered 40 mg of IV Lasix times two with diuresis of
approximately one liter.  The patient denied any chest pain
throughout her entire presentation.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type II diabetes mellitus.
2.  Morbid obesity.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Congestive heart failure of unclear etiology with normal
[**Name (NI) 20679**] systolic function.  Question of left ventricular
hypertrophy on prior echocardiogram.
5.  Stasis dermatitis in bilateral lower extremities.
6.  No history of coronary artery disease.
7.  Restrictive lung disease, believed to be secondary to
morbid obesity.  The patient does have a home O2 requirement
of approximately 2.0 to 2.5 liters during the day time.
8.  Presumptive obstructive sleep apnea.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

ADMITTING MEDICATIONS:  1) Amaryl 2.0 mg po bid, 2)
Glucophage 1,000 mg po bid, 3) Singulair 10 mg po q day, 4)
Zocor 10 mg po q day, 5) Hyzaar 50/12.5 q day, 6) Atenolol 25
mg po q day, 7) Avandia 8.0 mg po bid.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies any tobacco use.  She
lives with her husband, no alcohol use.  She is gravida II,
para II.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Negative for cancers.  Paternal grandmother
with diabetes mellitus and maternal aunt with coronary artery
disease.

PRIOR STUDIES:  Echocardiogram of 12/99 revealed mild left
axis deviation, mild mitral regurgitation, and mild pulmonary
artery systolic hypertension.  Exercise tolerance test MIBI
was without angina, no ischemic changes, left ventricular
ejection fraction was estimated at 64% with normal wall
motion.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature on presentation was 99.1
F, pulse is 84, blood pressure was 116/50, breathing at a
rate of 19, 96% on 100% nonrebreather.  Weight was
approximately 286 pounds.  In general, the patient was alert
and oriented times three, on 100% nonrebreather, in moderate
respiratory distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat:
pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation bilaterally, oropharynx is clear.  Neck is
without lymphadenopathy, there is not any assessable jugular
venous pulse.  Chest examination reveals diffuse inspiratory
and expiratory wheezes and crackles with a prolonged
expiratory phase.  Cardiovascular examination is of regular
rate and rhythm without evidence of murmurs, rubs, or
gallops.

Abdomen is obese without tenderness, guarding, or distention,
there are normoactive bowel sounds.  There is no suprapubic
tenderness, no costovertebral angle tenderness.  Extremities
reveal trace bilateral upper extremity edema with 2+ to 3+
bilateral lower extremity edema, 1+ bilateral dorsalis pedis
pulses, and 2+ bilateral radial pulses with stage I stasis
dermatitis of the bilateral ankles.  Neurologic examination:
there are no focal motor deficits and the patient denies any
sensory changes.

ADMISSION LABORATORY DATA:  Include a white blood cell count
of 8.2, hematocrit of 39.6, platelets are 310,000.
Chemistries showed a sodium of 138, potassium of 5.0,
chloride 96, bicarbonate is 34, BUN is 17, creatinine 0.6,
serum glucose is 231.  Urinalysis was negative for blood,
nitrates, with 30 protein, greater than 1,000 glucose,
negative ketones, and no cells.  Troponin on admission was
1.4, CK on admission was 176 with an MB fraction of 2.0.
Second CK was 153 with an MB fraction of 3.0.  Calcium was
8.3, albumin 3.5, magnesium 4.9, phosphate 1.9.

Chest x-ray on admission showed florid congestive heart
failure with no evidence of pleural effusion, but perihilar
haziness and more confluent of opacification of the lung
bases and retrocardiac region.  Electrocardiogram showed a
left bundle branch block, stable from comparison
electrocardiogram of [**2165-10-30**], with no acute ST-T wave
changes indicative of ongoing ischemia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted and started on a
regimen for treatment of acute pulmonary edema.  The patient
was aggressively diuresed with 80 mg of IV Lasix [**Hospital1 **] and
oxygenated with face mask O2 as needed to keep oxygen
saturations greater than 92%.  Levaquin 500 mg po q day was
also initiated for treatment of presumptive pneumonia.  The
patient remained initially stable overnight; however, on
hospital day two was noted to be increasingly somnolent.

An arterial blood gas was measured at this time which
revealed a pH of 7.2, pO2 of 42, pCO2 of 104.  The patient
was sent for a stat CT scan angiogram to rule out pulmonary
embolism.  This study, although grossly limited, did not find
any major perfusion deficits in the pulmonary vascular
system.  The patient was continued to be aggressively
diuresed.  She was also placed on BiPAP, however, the patient
did not tolerate the BiPAP apparatus.  The patient was
transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for closer
monitoring and optimization of respiratory status in the
setting of hypercarbic respiratory failure of unclear
etiology with underlying congestive heart failure and
pneumonia, both of which were being treated.

While in the Intensive Care Unit, the patient's oxygenation
was maximized with CPAP at bed time at 20 cm of water which
the patient intermittently tolerated and five liters of
oxygen via nasal cannula during the day.  Repeat arterial
blood gas prior to discharge from the Medical Intensive Care
Unit, was pH of 7.36 with CO2 of 87 and a pO2 of 61.  The
patient was transferred to [**Hospital Unit Name 196**] team after her Medical
Intensive Care Unit course.

While on the floor, the patient continued to improve on CPAP
of 5.0 cm to 10 cm of water at bedtime.  She was unable to
tolerate any further increase beyond this point.  The
patient's oxygenation remained stable on four to five liters
of oxygen via nasal cannula during the day time.  The patient
continued to be aggressively diuresed.  It was noted that
intermittently throughout her hospital course, the patient
was experiencing gross hematuria through her Foley catheter.
At the time her subcutaneous heparin was discontinued.  In
addition, this was believed to be secondary to the fact that
the patient was intermittently on heparin around the time of
admission as empiric therapy for a possible pulmonary
embolus.

Upon returning to the Medical Floor, the patient was noted
also to have intermittent alarms on telemetry of paroxysmal
multi-focal atrial tachycardia and frequent runs of
supraventricular tachycardia.  The patient's Albuterol
nebulizers were believed to be contributing to this and these
were placed on a prn basis.  In addition, secondary to the
patient's persistent wheezing, her beta blocker was stopped
and she was switched to Diltiazem.  For further
characterization of the patient's congestive heart