Admission Date:  [**2147-8-11**]       Discharge Date:  [**2147-8-12**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 85 year old man who
is status post a fall off of the toilet.  He is a nursing
home resident and remembers all of the events.  He was
attempting to get up from the toilet when he slipped.  There
was no loss of consciousness.  At the time he did hit his
head.  He denied any pain on admission.  The patient
initially fell two days prior to his admission.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Inclusive for diabetes, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, and coronary artery disease.
He is in atrial fibrillation, dementia, history of
Clostridium difficile colitis.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  He was on Coumadin 2.5 mg for his
atrial fibrillation, Lopressor 75 mg, Flagyl 500 mg which
ends on [**8-15**] and Aerdophillus two tablets which also end
on [**8-15**].

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is a nursing home resident after a few
recent surgeries of hernia repair, status post
cholecystectomy and he has been at rehabilitation since those
surgeries.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs 97.7, blood pressure
125/65, heartrate 100 to 110, irregular.  Respirations 27,
95% on room air.  The patient was awake, alert and oriented
times three.  Pupils are 4 to 2.  Extraocular movements were
full.  Tympanic membranes were clear.  He had small
ecchymosis over the right eye.  Neck, no crepitus or
tenderness.  Lungs were clear to auscultation, irregular
rhythm.  Abdomen was soft, nondistended, no upper lower
extremity deformities.  Rectal, normal tone, guaiac negative.
Back, negative.  Extremities, small abrasion of his right
elbow and left knee.  He moves all extremities, [**4-24**].
Neurologically, awake, alert and oriented times three, moving
all extremities.  His motor strength was 4+/5 in bilateral
upper extremities, 4 in the right lower extremity and 4+ in
his left lower extremity.  Sensation was normal intact.
Decreased proprioception in bilateral lower extremities, no
drift.  Full extraocular movements, face symmetric, tongue
midline.  Cranial nerves II through XII intact.  No raccoons,
battle or otorrhea or rhinorrhea.

LABORATORY DATA:  He had a head computerized tomography scan
which showed a very small right parietal subarachnoid
hemorrhage.  He had a left elbow, right knee and left knee
x-ray, all were negative for fracture.

His admission laboratory work showed white count 12.1,
hematocrit 36.1, platelets 376, sodium 132, potassium 3.7,
BUN 16, creatinine .6.  His PT was 22.7 and PTT 38.3.  His
INR was 3.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit where his coagulopathy was reversed with
8 units of fresh frozen plasma to get his INR to 1.3 or less.
He was also given Vitamin K 5 mg intramuscularly, and he was
started on some intravenous fluids and he was started on some
intravenous fluids and his neurological examination was
followed closely, q. one hour while awake.  The patient
remained awake, alert and oriented times three while in the
Intensive Care Unit.  He had no change in his neurologic
status.  He was seen by Cardiology regarding his possible
syncope episode, however, it was decided that the patient did
have a mechanical fall.  They recommended an echocardiogram
which showed that he had an ejection fraction of 45 to 50%.
He had 1+ mitral regurgitation and then 3+ tricuspid
regurgitation.  His rhythm while in the Intensive Care Unit
was normal sinus with occasional premature atrial
contractions, they recommended he continue on his Lopressor.
On the morning of [**8-12**], the patient did have a repeat
computerized axial tomography scan which showed no interval
changes and his right parietal subarachnoid bleed.  There was
no change in size and no further progression of the lead.
The patient remained awake, alert and oriented times three.
He is to be transferred back to his rehabilitation facility
with the following instructions.  He should restart on
Coumadin in one week.  Coumadin should be held until that
time.  He should continue on his Lopressor 50 mg tablets
b.i.d., Flagyl one tablet p.o. 500 mg p.o. t.i.d., Vitamin K
he needs one dose tomorrow which would be [**2154-8-13**] mg
intramuscular.  He would continue his physical therapy and
house diet.  He should follow up and see Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 739**] in
one month for a repeat computerized tomography scan at that
time.  His family has been provided a number to call for that
appointment.  The patient's INR on discharge was 1.2.  He was
discharged neurologically intact.





Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 26792**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2147-8-12**]  14:24
T:  [**2147-8-12**]  15:07
JOB#:  [**Job Number 100040**]
