Admission Date: [**2192-4-1**]        Discharge Date: [**2192-4-12**]

Date of Birth:  [**2128-8-24**]        Sex:  F

Service:  MED

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Respiratory distress.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 63 year old
female with a history of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (FEV 1 equals 0.46 with baseline PCO2 in the 50s),
ongoing tobacco use, multiple recent Intensive Care Unit
admissions for hypercarbic respiratory failure and a feeling
of noncompliance, currently on steroid tapers and still with
active tobacco use, diastolic dysfunction, now being
evaluated in the Intensive Care Unit after being found
nonresponsive with open eyes at her [**Hospital3 537**] earlier
today.  The patient had recent bronchitis which was treated
with Levaquin which she is currently on day #4 and she is
currently on a Prednisone taper, now at 30 mg q. day.
Initial vital signs revealed the patient was afebrile at
96.8, pulse 92, blood pressure 144/70, pulse 24, sating 82
percent on room air to 89 to 99 percent on nonrebreather
without any wheezing or gasping for air and able to answer
questions.  Emergency Medical Services had given nebulizers
without improvement and the patient was intubated in the
field with 25 mg of Versed and 10 mg of Succinate and was
hypercapnic in the field by monitor with carbon dioxide of
100.

In the Emergency Room it was noted that it was difficult to
bag and ventilate the patient and initial lavage and suction
with thick secretions, transiently hypertensive into the 60s
with heart rates at the 120s, improving with intravenous
fluid levels.  Initial Emergency Department vital signs
revealed temperature 98.8, blood pressure 84/42, heart rate
103, respiratory rate 16 and  98 percent on a ventilator with
initial arterial blood gases 7.13, 118 and 503.  The patient
was given Solu-Medrol 125 mg intravenously, 500 mg of
intravenously Levaquin and Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers
and the patient was then sedated.  A right central line was
placed.  Orogastric tube was placed.  Chest x-ray showed a
questionable retrocardiac opacity.  The patient was also
given 1 gm of Vancomycin and 2 gm of Ceptaz, after his
intravenous fluids, and then was transferred to the Intensive
Care Unit for management of hypercarbic respiratory failure.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with FEV1 of 0.46,
   26 percent predicted, FEC equals 1.28 and FVC of 49
   percent.
2. Diastolic dysfunction, ejection fraction greater than 55
   percent.
3. Status post right-sided pneumothorax in [**2190-1-29**], in
   the setting of blood resection and pleurodesis.
4. Hypertension.
5. Alcohol abuse.
6. Tobacco abuse.
7. Status post hip replacements.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Flovent 100 mcg 2 puffs per day,
b.i.d., insulin sliding scale, Prednisone 30 q. day, Levaquin
500 mg a day q. 4, Atrovent inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d., Ativan
0.5 prn anxiety, Ibuprofen 400 mg prn, Lasix 20 mg q. day,
metered dose inhaler q. day, aspirin 81 one a day, Diltiazem
controlled release 360 q. day, Folate one q. day, Nicotine
patch 7 mg for 24 hours, Protonix 40 q. day, milk of magnesia
prn, Tylenol prn, Thiamine 100 q. day, Colace.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient with [**Hospital3 537**] since [**2192-3-1**].  Strong longstanding issue with tobacco and alcohol use
in the past.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On initial examination the patient was
afebrile, sinus tachycardiac to 104, blood pressure 136/80,
respiratory rate 16, sating 100 percent on assist control,
breathing at 15, 7500 cc title volume on positive end-
expiratory pressure of 5 and 50 percent FIO2.  In general,
she was sedated, intubated.  Her head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat examination was significant for no jugular venous
distension or bruits, moist mucous membranes.  Cardiovascular
is tachycardiac irregular.  Pulmonary examination is
significant for poor air movement.  No lower extremity edema.
Abdominal examination is benign.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory work shows arterial blood gas of
7.13, 118, and 503 on admission.  her white count is 8.5.
Her hematocrit is 35.7, platelets 203.  Her PT is 12.1, PTT
27.1, INR 1.  Chemistries reveal sodium 142, potassium 5.4,
chloride 96, bicarbonate 43.  The BUN was 23, creatinine 1.2,
glucose 94.  She had urine blood cultures which were pending
at the time of admission.  Urinalysis otherwise showing mild
Porphyria.  Echocardiogram shows sinus tachycardia at 100
beats/minute with no definite signs of any ischemia.  Chest x-
ray shows questionable left lung base opacity and
hyperinflated lung consistent with severe septicemia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Pulmonary - The patient transferred to Medical Intensive
   Care Unit with history of severe chronic obstructive
   pulmonary disease and previous exacerbations requiring
   intubation.  During this admission she was admitted after
   being found unresponsive and in presumed hypercarbic
   respiratory failure.  As mentioned above, she was
   intubated in the field and in the Emergency Department.
   She had previously been treated for a presumed bronchitis
   with Levaquin and this initially was continued.  She was
   given intravenous steroids initially and also was placed
   on ventilation support.  Her chest x-rays never clearly
   demonstrated a new infiltrate.  Meanwhile later in the
   [**Hospital 228**] hospital course, repeat sputum samples did come
   back positive for Pseudomonas.  Subsequently that was
   resistant to Quinolone.  She was subsequently started on
   Zosyn on [**4-5**] and was in the process of completing a two
   week course of Zosyn.  She had a left upper extremity PICC
   line that was placed for longterm antibiotics.  Meanwhile
   in terms of respiratory failure the patient was extubated
   on hospital day #4.  However, the remainder of her
   hospital course was marked by high dependence upon BiPAP
   for adequate ventilation.  Specifically, she was often
   found on arterial blood gases to be hypercarbic into the
   80s and 90s and there was concern about carbon dioxide
   narcosis.  The patient has shown mild improvement in her
   ability to ventilate without the assistance of BiPAP and
   at the time of discharge may only need BiPAP during the
   evenings.  It is felt that the patient at baseline had
   high carbon dioxide levels on her arterial blood gas, but
   PH has been preserved.  At this point, it is recommended
   that the patient receive BiPAP for symptoms of increased
   lethargy suggestive of elevated carbon dioxide.  But,
   arterial blood gases are not being checked at this point.
   Her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is severe at
   this point.  As such, she will be discharged to a
   pulmonary rehabilitation service.  She also has been on
   steroids in the past and, in fact, has come in on a
   steroid taper.  As such, the patient will have a slow
   taper over the next several weeks.  She will also be
   discharged with frequent Albuterol and Atrovent
   nebulizers.

2. Cardiovascular - The patient initially was evaluated in
   the Emergency Department and found to be hypotensive into
   the 60s and 70s.  This actually improved with aggressive
   intravenous fluids.  During the remainder of the [**Hospital 228**]
   hospital course she was hemodynamically stable.  Her
   Diltiazem was continued and hydrochlorothiazide was added
   as an additional [**Doctor Last Name 360**] for blood pressure control.
   Meanwhile, she did not show evidence of congestive heart
   failure on her examination and on chest x-rays.  Her Lasix
   was held, and she actually remained negative during her
   hospital stay.  Later during her hospital course, the
   patient was found to be increasingly tachycardiac with
   runs into the 120s and 130s.  She was asymptomatic and was
   shown now to be stable.  Further examination of the
   echocardiograms are suggestive of possible multifocal
   atrial tachycardia.  She was then started on low dose beta
   blockade which can be titrated after heart rate of 100.

3. Infectious disease - As mentioned above, the patient was
   initially admitted on Levaquin for presumed bronchitis and
   was