Admission Date:  [**2103-10-10**]     Discharge Date:  [**2103-11-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2039-8-30**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Thoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 63-year-old
woman with diabetes and a past history of lung cancer who is
status post bilateral upper lobectomies.

Over the past year, the patient has had problems with
persistent pneumonia and an effusion on the right side that
was thought to be due to a mechanical narrowing and kinking
of her right middle lobe bronchi resulting in a right middle
lobe syndrome.  A video thoracoscopy had identified the right
middle lobe as a small, and voluted, and chronically infected
structure.

After a long discussion with the patient, her family, and her
primary care physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] was determined that the most
reasonable course of action was surgical resection given that
the only other alternative would be likely frequent
readmissions for a persistent pneumonia and effusions on this
right side.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  Thus, on [**2103-10-10**], the patient was taken for a right middle lobectomy and
a tracheobronchoplasty.  Immediately postoperatively, the
patient was able to be extubated but had some mucoid
secretions that plugged her lower lube bronchi, resulting in
respiratory distress.  The patient had to be intubated again,
and at bronchoscopy a mucous plug was evacuated, and the
patient was able to be subsequently extubated.
Unfortunately, this problem happened again, and the patient
had to be reintubated, and again underwent a therapeutic
bronchoscopy.

At this point, the patient was transferred to the
Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit where she was monitored
very closely for evidence of a recurrent mucous plugging of
her lower lobe bronchi.

On postoperative day two, the patient had a bedside
percutaneous tracheostomy placed by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 951**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 952**] to
facilitate aggressive pulmonary toilet.

Over the next several days, we were able to wean her
ventilatory support and progressed quite rapidly to having
the patient on tracheostomy mask during the day with some
ventilatory support at night.

The patient had intermittent episodes of recurrent mucous
plugging of her right lower lobe bronchi; at which point we
performed expeditious therapeutic bronchoscopies to evacuate
the mucous plugging and to reexpand her lower lobe.

The patient initially improved and stabilized and was
actually to progress toward using a Passy-Muir valve.
However, approximately two weeks postoperatively she
developed a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus
pneumonia.  Despite early and aggressive antibiotic therapy,
as well as intermittent therapeutic bronchoscopies, the
patient progressively deteriorated.  We attempted to optimize
her nutrition by feeding her through her previously placed
gastrostomy tube and having her work with the physical
therapist as much as possible; which included taking daily
walks around the Intensive Care Unit.

However, over the next three weeks, this pneumonia settled
into the basilar segments of her right lower lobe and she
became progressively depressed and physically fatigued.

Early in her hospitalization, we requested the assistance of
the Psychiatry Service in managing her depressed mood as well
as her anxiety.  They were very helpful in getting her on an
appropriate medication regimen including Remeron and Seroquel
with as needed Ativan.

Over the ensuing weeks, the patient began to express a
dissatisfaction with her continued tube feeds and positive
pressure ventilation at night.  After an extensive discussion
with her husband, her daughters (including one daughter who
is a clinical psychologist), and the patient; it was felt
that the situation with her limited pulmonary reserve in the
face of this unremitting pneumonia would not likely allow her
to be off life support in the near future.  Consequently, she
requested that the life saving measures be discontinued and
that she be allowed to expire comfortably.

Thus, on [**2103-11-16**], in the presence of her family, we
placed the patient on a tracheostomy mask.  She was able to
say her final good byes, and we initiated a low-dose morphine
drip to eliminate any air hunger, after which she expired.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was deceased.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Status post right middle lobectomy and
tracheobronchoplasty on [**2103-10-10**].
2.  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3351**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3352**]

Dictated By:[**Dictator Info 10891**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2103-11-16**]  20:50
T:  [**2103-11-17**]  05:56
JOB#:  [**Job Number 10892**]
