Admission Date:  [**2108-5-18**]       Discharge Date:  [**2108-5-31**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 85 year old
female who was found down unresponsive by her family.  She
was brought to the Emergency Room at an outside hospital.  An
electrocardiogram at the outside hospital showed atrial
fibrillation and a head computerized tomography scan showed a
questionable intracerebral bleed.  She was transferred to
[**Hospital6 256**] for further evaluation.
Upon arrival in the Emergency Room here she was found to be
drowsy but arousable.  She had left-sided neglect.  She
underwent an magnetic resonance imaging scan which showed a
right-sided cerebrovascular accident.  The patient was
admitted to the Neurology Stroke Service for further
treatment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for a coronary artery
bypass graft and a bioprosthetic aortic valve.  She also has
a history of atrial fibrillation.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Her medications included Coumadin
which was stopped one week ago, Lasix and potassium.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She was independent and was living with her
son.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was managed by the Neurology
service for the majority of her hospital course.  She was
showing marginal changes in her neurological status.  She was
able to respond mildly to her family.  A lengthy discussion
was made with the family regarding her disposition.  The
family made it clear very early on that the patient was very
independent and had made it abundantly clear to the family
that she never wanted any heroic measures done.  She never
wanted to be put on a feeding tube or live in a nursing home.
As this was early into her cerebrovascular accident course
her exact prognosis was difficult to exactly ascertain.  In
order to provide adequate nutrition, multiple swallow studies
were obtained on the patient which she failed.  She was noted
to aspirate and would not be able to coordinate a swallowing
reflex.  Thus, in order to remove the nasogastric tube from
the patient, the patient was sent to Interventional Radiology
for placement of a percutaneous gastrojejunostomy tube.  Upon
attempted placement of this gastrojejunostomy tube, there was
an unfortunate complication and there was a perforation of
the duodenum.  This perforation was recognized by the
Interventional Radiology Team almost immediately and surgery
was immediately consulted.  The patient was promptly taken to
the Operating Room for exploratory laparotomy.  A large sized
perforation of the duodenum was primarily repaired and also
the gastric puncture site was also closed.  The patient was
brought to the Intensive Care Unit in critical condition.
She remained on the ventilator.  Her blood pressure was
requiring multiple pressor supports including Levophed and
Neo-Synephrine.  The patient required much volume
resuscitation on the day of surgery and on postoperative day
#1.  Her blood pressures mildly responded, however, still
requiring blood pressure support.  Her cardiac enzymes were
ruling out for myocardial infarction.  On the evening of
postoperative day #1, the patient underwent placement of
pulmonary artery catheter which was complicated by pulmonary
artery perforation and as blood was noted to well up in the
endotracheal tube.  The pulmonary artery catheter was pulled
back to central venous pressure.  Cardiothoracic surgery
consult was obtained.  The patient required one unit of blood
transfusion, however, did remarkably well for this
complication, and was doing well on the ventilator on the
morning of postoperative day #2.  However, her overall state
remained the same if not a little bit worse.  She was still
requiring Levophed and Neo-Synephrine for blood pressure
support and was still unresponsive and was still dependent on
the ventilator.  On the morning of postoperative day #1 the
patient's family expressively wished to terminate care and
withdraw all measures and allow their mother to pass away
comfortably.  Upon further discussion they agreed to allow
approximately 24 more hours to see if she would turn around
the corner.  They also talked to the Intensive Care Unit
attending, Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name (STitle) **] on the evening of postoperative
day #1 and agreed to let her go through the night to see what
she looked like in the morning.  On the morning of
postoperative day #2, upon the patient's family's arrival it
was obviously aware that she had not made any progress and
was, in fact, a little bit worse.  They proceeded to explain
to the primary surgical team that the patient had made it
explicitly clear three years prior that she never wanted any
of these kinds of measures done, she never wanted to have a
breathing tube, she never wanted to have a feeding tube and
she never wanted to be in a nursing home or in a
rehabilitation facility.  The situation was discussed at
length by the surgical resident and Intensive Care Unit
attending.  The family was notified that it is still possible
over a long Intensive Care Unit course to get their mother
back to the status that she was at prior to the complication,
however, due to the stroke she will probably never be
completely independent as she had wished.  The patient's
family was in clear understanding of this scenario and
adamantly wished to continue with withdrawal care as they
thought that this would be the patient's wish.  Upon
notification of Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 519**] who was covering for Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], the
Intensive Care Unit attending Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] and the surgical
resident, everyone was in compliance, the family was well
informed and withdrawal of care ensued.  The patient expired
at 12:50 PM on [**2108-5-31**].  The family was notified.  The
medical examiner was also notified, and declined the case as
they said it did not have to be reported as the incident was
48 hours prior.  Thus the patient expired at 12:50 PM on [**2108-5-31**].



                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 520**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 521**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 3181**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2108-5-31**]  14:23
T:  [**2108-5-31**]  15:56
JOB#:  [**Job Number 49061**]
