Admission Date: [**2104-12-4**]        Discharge Date: [**2104-12-19**]

Date of Birth:  [**2057-11-9**]        Sex:  F

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  End-stage liver disease here for liver
transplant.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 46-year-old female
with decompensated cirrhosis secondary to hepatitis C virus
and alcohol abuse. She presented for liver transplant. Her
liver disease has been complicated by variceal bleeding,
encephalopathy, and ascites. Past risk factors included IV
drug use and possibly a drug transfusion. Her last hepatitis
C virus viral load was on [**2104-11-2**] and this was
700. She has stopped drinking for approximately 2 years. She
also has a history of hepatitis B, hepatitis B core antibody
positive. She also has a history of hemachromatosis. In
addition, she has had a reactive PPD as she was homeless for
a while living in shelters and will likely need to be treated
with INH postoperatively and once she is stable.

She was admitted to [**Hospital **] [**Hospital **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] on [**2104-10-31**] with complaints of fatigue, nausea, vomiting,
chills, and abdominal pain. An EGD revealed a grade 1
varices, and gastric emptying study revealed delayed gastric
emptying. A CT on [**11-6**] demonstrated portal
hypertension, normal hepatic arterial, portal venous, and
hepatic venous flow. No history of infected ascites.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hepatitis C virus,
hemachromatosis, hepatitis B virus, alcohol abuse,
depression, asthma, end-stage liver disease.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  C-section x2.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mother with a history of bipolar disease.
Father with history of stomach cancer.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Past history of IV drug use. Transfusion at
age 17. History of alcoholism, homeless, and 2 daughters.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No recent illness.

ALLERGIES:  To [**Location (un) 99403**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were stable. She appeared
jaundice. Abdomen was soft, nontender, distended, positive
caput. She did have 2/6 systolic ejection murmur heard at the
aortic site.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  She was preop'd and sent to the OR, and
underwent a cadaveric orthotopic liver transplant. She did
well intraoperative. Please see operative note for details. A
T-tube was placed in the anterior wall. Two JPs were placed
as well. Surgeon was Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 816**], assisted by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 3826**],
and Dr. [**First Name (STitle) **]. Patient received induction
immunosuppression of Solu-Medrol 500 mg and CellCept 1 gram.
She was recovered in the PACU and sent to the SICU
postoperatively, where she did well.

She was in the SICU for approximately 6 days during which
time a postoperative ultrasound demonstrated patent hepatic
vasculature and a hematoma at the right subphrenic space
causing some compression of the adjacent liver. This hematoma
measures 7 x 10 cm. Her LFTs trended down with an AST of 84,
ALT 100, alkaline phosphatase 85, and T bilirubin of 2.5. She
continued on Solu-Medrol taper. She received CellCept 1 gram
b.i.d. She was started on Prograf 2 mg b.i.d. On
postoperative day 2, Prograf levels were monitored.

On postoperative day 4, Prograf level was 10.7. Patient was
transferred to the medical-surgical transplant unit shortly
thereafter. Upon arrival to the transplant unit, patient had
a tonic-clonic seizure. This was witnessed. She was given IV
Ativan. A neurology consult was obtained. This seizure lasts
approximately 3 minutes. This was witnessed. Approximately
symptoms resolved spontaneously. Approximately 30 minutes
again, the patient suffered a generalized tonic-clonic
IV Ativan. Patient was hemodynamically stable. Heart rate was
in the 90s. Oxygen saturation was 100%. A CT scan of her head
was done. No acute bleed, mass, or shift was noted.

Neurology was consulted. An EKG was done. This was normal.
ABGs were done as well. An ammonia level was sent off as
well. Patient underwent a LP. The LP spinal fluid was
negative for malignant cells, protein, debris, and rare
lymphocytes and monocytes were noted. Cryptococcal antigen
was not detected. No polymorphonuclear leukocytes were seen.
No microorganisms were seen. Hemophilus species demonstrated
rare growth as well as Viridans, streptococci, rare growth of
colonial morphologies. Clinical significance was uncertain.
Acid-fast culture was sent. This was still pending as of
discharge. Fungal culture was negative and viral culture was
negative for virus isolets.

EEG demonstrated mildly abnormal findings demonstrated brief
and prolonged bursts of theta and delta occurring in a
generalized distributions suggestive of a mild diffuse
encephalopathy. Patient then underwent a MRI with gadolinium.
Multiple largely cortically-based areas of T2 hyperintensity
with some clustering was noted within the region of the
occipital lobes. Given the history of immunosuppression, a
reversible encephalopathic process was considered.

After discussion with the attending neurologist, Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **], it was noted that the CSF fluid was negative for
infectious changes. The patient was not started on
antiseizure medications pending full and final workup.
Prograf was continued until postoperative day 7 when the
patient was transitioned over to Rapamune 2 mg. Rapamune 2 mg
p.o. daily was initiated. Rapamune level was obtained after 4
doses. The level returned at 28.3. The dose was held and
restarted at 1 mg p.o. daily. This trended down to 7.9 mg on
postoperative day 13. The dose was readjusted and dosed as 2
mg p.o. daily. Patient did not have any further seizures.
Vital signs remained stable.

Patient was started on Keppra per neuro's recommendations.
She received 250 mg tablets 3 tablets p.o. b.i.d. Patient
underwent a MRI with gadolinium on [**12-11**]. Again,
multiple small areas of elevated flare signals were noted,
mostly cortical in locale, somewhat clustered in the region
of the posterior temporal and occipital lobes on both sides.
Hyperintense lesions were seen in the gyral distribution on
the right at the vertex level. A 5-mm rounded zone of
elevated flare signal was seen within the posterior aspect of
the right hippocampus lateral to the incisura. There was no
hydrocephalus or shifting of midline structures. Conclusion
included multiple largely cortically-based areas of T2
hyperintensity with some clustering within the region of the
occipital lobes.

A repeat MRI was done on 5 days later. There was resolution
of the abnormalities in the occipital and posterior temporal
lobes. This was consistent with a reversible encephalopathic
process.

On the 1st MRI, a 2 x 4-mm aneurysm arising posterolaterally
from the supraclinoid portion of the left internal carotid
artery. Neurology recommended that the patient follow up as
an outpatient in 6 weeks after an angiogram was obtained as
an outpatient.

While the patient stayed in the ICU, pain medication was
managed. Patient complained of abdominal pain. She was
managed with a fentanyl drip as well as a fentanyl patch with
p.r.n. breakthrough pain medication.

Patient spent 3 days in the SICU and was transferred back to
the medical surgical unit on postoperative day 9 during which
time she had no further seizures. Her pain was controlled
with Dilaudid p.r.n. for breakthrough and a fentanyl patch.
The acute pain service was consulted for recommendations for
discharge medication as the patient's insurance did not cover
fentanyl patches. Patient was transitioned to methadone 30 mg
p.o. t.i.d. with Dilaudid for breakthrough pain. She did well
with this. No excessive sedation was noted. She was
comfortable, and her respiratory rate was satisfactory. O2
saturation was normal.

Patient underwent a tube cholangiogram on [**12-10**]. This
demonstrated widely patent biliary anastomosis without leak,
intrahepatic biliary ducts were not visualized. A tube
cholangiogram was done via the T-tube: Again, widely patent
biliary anastomosis without a leak was noted. LFTs trended
down nicely with discharge AST of 28, ALT 23, alkaline
phosphatase 92, and total bilirubin of 1.5. Hematocrit
drop