Admission Date:  [**2106-5-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2106-5-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2034-3-28**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Thoracic surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72 year-old
female who presents preoperatively for repair of
tracheomalacia, status post tracheostomy.  The patient is
status post resection of larynx tumor.  She has had a left
main stem stent removed yesterday and is returned to the
emergency department with mild shortness of breath and
inability to clear her secretions.  She came to the emergency
department and had some improvement.  She is also here for
improvement of her tracheomalacia and scheduled for elective
tracheobronchoplasty.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Is significant for laryngeal cancer,
status post resection and x-ray and radiation treatment,
tracheomalacia, status post tracheostomy, hypothyroid.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Synthroid .75 mcg per day, Zantac 150
mg p.o. b.i.d., potassium chloride, Mucomyst neb treatments q
4 p.r.n., albuterol inhaler p.r.n., saline inhaler p.r.n.
Patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a prior tobacco use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Is noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient is afebrile, 97.4, heart rate
is 83, blood pressure 145/63, respiratory rate of 30, satting
96 percent on room air.  Patient is alert and oriented, well
appearing female, regular rate and rhythm.  Lungs are clear
to auscultation bilaterally, had minimal sputum secretions.
Trach site is without any erythema.  Abdomen is soft,
nontender, nondistended.  Extremities showed no edema.

Patient had a chest x-ray which showed clear lung fields
bilaterally.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  A 72 year-old female who is preop for
tracheobronchoplasty.  Patient has a history of
tracheomalacia.  Patient is preopped for the operating room
the following day.

On [**2106-5-21**] patient was brought to the operating room for
elective tracheobronchoplasty and bronchoscopy.  Patient
tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the CSRU
in stable condition.  Patient was extubated on a trach mask.
Patient had epidural and Foley catheter in place and chest
tube.  On postoperative day one patient was afebrile.  Vital
signs were stable.  Patient was on a trach mask satting 98
percent.  Patient's postoperative laboratories showed a white
count of 11.9 and a hematocrit of 34.3 and a platelet count
of 207.  Patient's other laboratory values were otherwise
stable.  Patient's epidural was continued.  Vancomycin
intravenous was continued.  Postoperative day two patient was
afebrile with stable vital signs.  Patient was satting 95
percent on 60 percent trach mask.  Patient's laboratory
values were all stable.  Patient's chest tubes were
discontinued.  On postoperative day two after chest tubes had
been discontinued patient started to develop increasing
subcutaneous emphysema up to her right base.  Patient denied
any shortness of breath but had palpable crepitus across the
chest and right base.  This was discussed with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 952**].
Chest x-ray showed pneumothorax and massive subcutaneous
emphysema.  Patient had a right chest tube replaced.  Patient
tolerated the procedure well.  Patient was transferred to the
floor.  Patient was seen by physical therapy.  Patient was
out of bed to a chair.  On postoperative day number four the
patient was ambulating with physical therapy.  Patient had
maximum temperature of 99.2.  Otherwise vital signs were
stable.  Patient was saturating 92 to 96 on 56 percent face
mask.  Patient's chest tube was putting out minimal output.
Patient did not have an air leak.  Patient had laboratories
redrawn.  White count was 7.8, hematocrit was 33.9.  Other
laboratory values were all within normal limits.  Patient's
chest tube was kept to suction and then transferred later on
that day to water-seal.  The patient's antibiotic was changed
to Nasalide because the patient was feeling those issues
having a reaction to Vancomycin.  On postoperative day four
patient's epidural was capped.  On postoperative day five
patient had no significant events, he was afebrile.  Vital
signs were stable.  Chest tube continued to put out nothing
and had no air leak.  Patient's subcutaneous emphysema had
improved significantly.  Patient went for bronchoscopy by
pulmonary.  Bronchoscopy showed no secretions with good
surgical results.  Patient was out of bed with physical
therapy.  Patient was seen by case management on
postoperative day six and stated that she was going to go
home, felt she had enough support to help her.  On
postoperative day six the patient was continued to do well on
Nasalide tolerating it well, was afebrile with stable vital
signs.  O2 saturations were 92 to 99 percent, 92 percent on
room air.  Chest tube was putting out minimal.  The chest
tube was removed.  Patient was out of bed with physical
therapy.  On postoperative day number seven patient
complained of having increased requirements for albuterol.
However, patient's oxygen saturations were 99 percent on the
trach mask.  Patient was felt to be anxious about possible
discharge home.  Rehabilitation possibilities were discussed
with the patient.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 3351**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 3352**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 10638**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2106-5-28**]  08:46
T:  [**2106-5-28**]  08:58
JOB#:  [**Job Number 53918**]
