Admission Date:  [**2176-10-4**]       Discharge Date:  [**2176-10-7**]


Service:  MEDICINE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84-year-old
male with a history of Billroth II gastrectomy for peptic
ulcer disease and history of upper GI bleed in [**2176-5-20**] at
[**Hospital6 1708**] secondary to peptic ulcer at
anastomosis site.  He was in his usual state of health until
the day prior to admission when he noticed dark colored
stools.

On the morning of admission, the patient vomited bright red
blood and blood clots and presented to the Emergency Room.
In the Emergency Room NG tube was placed, and lavage was
positive for blood which cleared with 300 cc normal saline.
The patient remained hemodynamically stable.  He was started
on intravenous Protonix, given 1 L normal saline and 1 U
packed red blood cells.  Hematocrit on admission was 34.2.

The patient was transferred to the MICU where EGD was done on
arrival.  EGD revealed gastritis, esophagitis, and jejunal
ulcer at the site of the GJ anastomosis (Billroth II
anatomy).  A 1 cm ulcer was visualized with fresh clot and
was injected with epinephrine and BICAP electrocautery was
applied with successful hemostasis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Billroth II gastrectomy.  2.
Peptic ulcer disease status post upper GI bleed in [**2176-5-20**].
3.  Dementia.  4.  Coronary artery disease status post
coronary artery bypass grafting.  5.  Type II diabetes
mellitus.  6.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  7.
Hypertension.  8.  Suprasellar mass, 4.5 cm x 2.5 cm,
unresectable.  9.  Hypothyroidism.  10.  Gastroesophageal
reflux disease.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Synthroid 0.5 mg p.o. q.d., Lasix
20 mg p.o. q.d., Metoprolol 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d., Glucophage
500 mg p.o. q.d., regular Insulin 2 U q.a.m., 4 u q.p.m., NPH
Insulin 12 U q.a.m.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives at [**Location **] [**Location (un) 18437**].
The patient is a former smoker.  No current alcohol use.

CODE STATUS:  DNR/DNI.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission the patient
was afebrile, pulse 105, blood pressure 120/61, oxygen
saturation 93% on 2 L nasal cannula.  General:  The patient
was sedated and in no acute distress.  Cardiovascular:
Regular rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Pulmonary:
Clear to auscultation bilaterally anteriorly.  Abdomen:
Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Extremities:  No clubbing,
cyanosis, or edema.

LABORATORY DATA:  WBC 8.9, hematocrit 30.2, platelet count
289; BUN 65, creatinine 1.0; platelet count 170.

Electrocardiogram on admission was sinus tachycardia at 107,
normal axis, normal intervals, Q-wave inversion in I, AVL,
and V4-V6.  No changes when compared to previous
electrocardiogram.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 85-year-old gentleman
with a history of Billroth II for peptic ulcer disease and
recent GI bleed secondary to ulcered anastomosis site.  He
was admitted with a one-day history of melena and
coffee-ground emesis.

1.  Upper GI bleed:  EGD revealed recurrent ulcer in the
jejunum just distal to the GJ anastomosis site.  Epinephrine
was injected around visible vessel and BICAP electrocautery
was performed.  The patient remained hemodynamically stable.
The patient was started on Protonix 40 mg IV b.i.d. which was
changed to 40 mg p.o. q.d. at the time of discharge.  H.
pylori antibody was sent on [**2176-10-7**], and is pending
at the time of this dictation.  The patient was transfused 1
U of packed red blood cells on admission for a hematocrit of
34.0.  Following transfusion, the patient's hematocrit
remained stable at 34-35 during the remainder of the
hospitalization.

2.  Cardiovascular:  The patient presented with a history of
coronary artery disease and is status post coronary artery
bypass grafting.  The patient was ruled out for myocardial
infarction with serial cardiac enzymes.  Electrocardiogram
from admission did not show changes from baseline.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient will be discharged back to
[**Location (un) 18437**].

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Gastrointestinal bleed.

DISCHARGE LABS:  Hematocrit at the time of discharge was
34.0.  H. pylori antibody is still pending.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d., Glucophage
500 mg p.o. q.a.m. with breakfast, NPH Insulin 12 U subcue
q.a.m., regular Insulin 4 U subcue q.5 p.m., Levoxyl 50 mcg
p.o. q.d., Novolin R 2 U subcue q.a.m., Lasix 20 mg p.o.
q.d., Metoprolol 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.






                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 15868**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1297**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2176-10-7**]  14:17
T:  [**2176-10-7**]  15:18
JOB#:  [**Job Number 47439**]
