Admission Date:  [**2164-12-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2164-12-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2103-6-1**]       Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61 year old
female with a history of asthma and abdominal mesothelioma
that was diagnosed three months prior to admission.  She is
now status post resection and debulking of tumor with local
recurrence.  She has been treated with Doxil.  Patient's most
recent dose of Doxil was seven days prior to admission.
Since last dose patient notes increased lower extremity
swelling bilaterally and three days of progressive fatigue as
well as decreased appetite and poor p.o. intake.  She was
seen in clinic at [**Hospital3 328**] Cancer Institute on [**12-21**], the
day of admission, where she was found to be anemic and was
transfused two units of packed red blood cells.  Patient
initially felt fine after transfusion, but 15 to 30 minutes
later when she was on her way home, she became acutely short
of breath and collapsed in the parking lot, complained of
associated chest tightness and was brought to [**Hospital1 346**] by ambulance.  In the E.D. patient
had a room air oxygen saturation of 87% which improved to 96%
on 6 liters face mask.  E.D. staff was concerned about
transfusion related lung injury and anaphylaxis, thus she was
initially treated with Benadryl, Solu-Medrol and epinephrine.
Also given patient's history of asthma, E.D. staff elected to
treat with albuterol and Atrovent nebs.  Patient had limited
improvement in symptoms with the above treatment.  Chest
x-ray was notable for a large left pleural effusion, moderate
right pleural effusion, patchy opacity in the right upper
lobe with questionable evidence of pulmonary edema.  Given
lack of improvement in symptoms, E.D. staff obtained a PE
protocol chest CT which revealed a small PE in one of the
left upper lobe segmental branches of the pulmonary artery as
well as a SVC clot.  Patient had a head CT that was
unremarkable.  Thus she was started on heparin.  Patient was
eventually given 40 of IV Lasix times one with 1200 cc of
urine output to that and much improved symptoms.  Of note, in
the E.D. patient's ECG was notable for poor R wave
progression, LVH by voltage criteria and [**Street Address(2) 2051**] elevations
in V2 and V3.  The first set of CKs that was sent from the
emergency department showed CK of 105, MB fraction 7,
troponin 0.3.  On review of systems patient denied fever,
chills, cough.  She had no history of DOE, PND or orthopnea.
She had no previous history of chest pain or chest tightness.
Patient did complain of odynophagia and a feeling of food and
medications lodging in her throat over the past few weeks.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Remarkable for mesothelioma as above.
Patient is followed by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] at [**Hospital3 328**]
Cancer Institute as well as by the onc Fellow, Noopur Raje.
Patient has a history of asthma with no history of
intubation.  History of hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin and sulfa.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  MS Contin 15 mg p.o. b.i.d., MSIR
7.5 mg p.o. q. three to four hours p.r.n. pain, Calan SR 240
mg p.o. q.day, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.day,
Singulair 10 mg p.o. q.day, Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q.day, senna
two tabs p.o. b.i.d., Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Klonopin 0.5
mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n., Celexa 40 mg p.o. q.day, Ritalin 2.5
mg p.o. b.i.d., Reglan 10 mg q.i.d. a.c. h.s. with food.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission patient's temperature was
98.7, pulse 128, blood pressure 167/66.  Patient was
breathing 25 times a minute, sating 98% on 6 liters face
mask.  Generally she was very uncomfortable, using accessory
muscles, however, alert and oriented times three.  HEENT:
patient's pupils were equal, round and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements were intact.  She had dry mucous
membranes.  No notable oropharyngeal lesions.  Neck was
supple.  Jugular venous pressure was appreciated at 7 cm.
Chest: patient had decreased breath sounds on the left to
half of her lung field, decreased breath sounds on the right
at base, scattered expiratory wheezing.  She was dull to
percussion on the left to half of her lung field.
Cardiovascular exam was notable for tachycardia, normal S1,
S2, no murmurs.  Abdomen was distended and firm with mild
diffuse tenderness, no rebound, no guarding.  Bowel sounds
were present, but quiet.  Extremities: patient had 2+ pitting
edema bilaterally in her lower extremities.  Neurologic exam
was limited due to patient's respiratory distress, but
grossly intact.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count was 15.1 with
differential notable for 65 neutrophils, no bands, 25
lymphocytes, hematocrit 32.6, platelets 957,000.  Sodium was
139, K 3.9, chloride 95, bicarb 28, BUN 27, creatinine 0.7,
glucose 127.  She had an ABG done which was on 6 liters face
mask which was notable for pH of 7.39, PCO2 46, PO2 121.  ECG
as noted above was sinus at 120 with normal QRS axis and
normal P axis.  She had normal PR intervals, normal QT
intervals and QRS duration of 100 msec.  She had [**Street Address(2) 2051**]
elevations in V2 and V3 and poor R wave progression in the
lateral leads.  Chest x-ray was described in the HPI as was
the CTA.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is a 61 year old female with a
history of abdominal mesothelioma presenting with acute
shortness of breath after receiving two units of packed red
blood cells in clinic.  Patient was found to be hypoxic in
the setting of newly diagnosed PE, large pleural effusion and
ECG with ST changes that were concerning for ischemia.

1.  Pulmonary.  Patient's initial presenting complaint was
shortness of breath.  She was, indeed, acutely dyspneic and
required large volumes of oxygen to maintain saturation above
90% on admission.  Patient's shortness of breath was likely
multifactorial due to pulmonary embolus, large pleural
effusion and pulmonary edema which was most likely due to
diastolic dysfunction in the setting of acute MI.  Patient
responded well to diuresis.  After she was stable from a
cardiovascular standpoint, she underwent therapeutic
thoracentesis of the right sided effusion.  Patient had an
ultrasound guided tap which revealed an exudative effusion
with 825 white blood cells, 49,000 red blood cells.
Differential on the white blood cells was notable for no
polys, 71 lymphocytes, 11 monos, 7 mesothelial cells that
were still being reviewed by pathology at the time of
discharge.  Gram stain and culture of her pleural fluid were
negative.  Given the appearance of atypical mesothelial cells
in the patient's pleural fluid analysis, it is concerning
that this may be extension of her malignancy into the
peritoneal cavity.  Patient continued to improve after
thoracentesis with continued diuresis.  At the time of
schedule she was sating 95% or higher on 4 liters nasal
cannula.  Chest x-ray on the day of discharge was notable for
some reaccumulation of the right sided fluid.  Would suggest
following this over time as patient may need to undergo
further drainage of this fluid for symptomatic relief and
possible pleurodesis in the future.

2.  Cardiovascular.
Coronary artery disease.  Patient was anticoagulated on
heparin at the time of admission.  She did, indeed, rule in
for MI.  Although her CKs remained flat, her troponin reached
a high of 18 before trending downward.  Her EKG showed
anteroseptal changes which evolved from ST elevation to T
wave inversion in leads V2 and V3.  Patient was started on
aspirin which she remains on at the time of discharge.
Patient was not started on a IIb/IIIa inhibitor due to
concern of continued bleeding from her tumor into the
peritoneum.  No interventional cardiac measures were
undertaken given patient's likely poor prognosis from her
tumor.

Pump.  Patient initially showed signs of acute CHF in the
setting of acute MI.  Patient was hypertensive and
tachycardiac on admission.  Patient was started on a nitro
drip for pain and blood pressure control as well as being
started on an esmolol drip to better rate control.  On the
esmolol drip patient had several episodes of bradycardia that
were symptomatic into the 30s.  