Admission Date: [**2117-4-25**]        Discharge Date: [**2117-5-14**]


Service:


HI[**Last Name (STitle) 2710**]OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. [**Known lastname 62213**] was seen originally
by our service on [**2117-4-8**], prior to admission for
evaluation by Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] for enlarged aneurysmal
ascending aorta. Her chief complaint was mild dyspnea on
exertion. She had some neck pain and difficulty swallowing. A
CT scan was done of her head and neck and chest, which
revealed a dilated ascending aorta from her root at
approximately 6.3 cm. Prior to admission on [**4-7**], a
cardiac cath was done which showed an ejection fraction of
60%, aneurysm of her root and ascending aorta without any
dissection, mild to moderate aortic insufficiency and normal
coronaries. Echocardiogram also performed prior to admission
showed an ejection fraction 55% to 60%, and ascending aorta
6.0 cm, moderate AI, moderate MR, moderate TR and mitral
annular calcification.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Bilateral breast cancer.
2. Chronic A. fib since [**2097**].
3. Status post pelvic fracture in [**2111**].
4. Question of mild COPD.
5. Question of small CVA in [**2112**].
6. Osteoporosis.
7. Recurrent urinary tract infections.


PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Right radical mastectomy in [**2084**] and
a simple left mastectomy in [**2099**].

MEDICATIONS:  Medications prior to admission were as follows:
Coumadin varying doses; aspirin 81 mg po once daily;
Verapamil sustained release 180 mg po once daily; Bactrim DS
half tab po once daily; Fosamax 70 once a week; calcium 1500
mg po once daily; vitamin E daily; multivitamin daily; and
Aciphex daily.

LABORATORY DATA:  Preop labs are as follows: White count 7.7,
hematocrit 41.3, PT 13.0, PTT 23.9, INR 1.1, platelet count
369,000. She had trace blood in her urinalysis and a moderate
amount of leukocytes. She also had significant bacteria on
her microscopic urine exam indicating urinary tract infection
on admission. BUN 18, creatinine 0.8, sodium 138, K 5.2,
chloride 102, bicarb 26, glucose 145, ALT 22, AST 23,
alkaline phosphatase 64, total bilirubin 0.3, calcium 9.1,
phosphorous 3.7, magnesium 1.7, total cholesterol 145,
triglycerides 46. Cholesterol HD ratio 2.3.

Preop chest x-ray showed some cardiomegaly and dilation of
her ascending aorta, but no CHF. There was also a small
abnormality focally for right hemidiaphragm. Please refer to
the final report dated [**2117-4-25**].

Preoperatively a carotid ultrasound was also performed, which
showed no evidence of stenosis in either carotid artery, and
normal antegrade vertebral flow.

ALLERGIES:  The patient also had a questionable allergy to
morphine, which she said had caused her to vomit in the past.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient did not admit to any drug abuse,
was not a smoker, and stated that she drank one glass of wine
per day. She lives alone at home and she is a retired
dietician.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient also admitted to an episode
of double vision approximately 3 years ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Her temperature was 96.6, blood
pressure 114/67, heart rate 83, respiratory rate 20, satting
96% on room air. Her neck was supple. Her pupils were equally
round and reactive to light. Her lungs were clear. Abdomen
was soft, nontender, nondistended. She had normal S1 and S2
heart tones. She was neurologically grossly intact.
Peripheral pulses were palpable and no bruit was heard on
carotid exam.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient stopped her Coumadin 5 days
prior to admission. IV heparin was started on her admission
on [**4-25**] to the hospital in preparation for her heart
surgery.

On house day 2, she remained in atrial fibrillation. Her INR
dropped to 1.2. The creatinine remained normal. She was
straight cathed for an additional urine specimen, given that
she had bacteria in her urine, even on her daily doses of
Bactrim. She was also seen by infectious diseases. The
patient was started on Levofloxacin 500 po daily for a 3 day
course prior to her surgery. She was also initially evaluated
by case management team preoperatively.

On[**4-27**] she underwent replacement of her ascending aorta and
hemi-transverse arch with a 32 mm Gelweave tube graft and a
re-suspension of her aortic valve by Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **]. She was
transferred to the cardiothoracic ICU in stable condition on
Propofol 20 mcg per kilograms per minute and a Neo-Synephrine
drip at 0.3 mcg per kilograms per minute.

On postoperative day 1 she had no events overnight.
Postoperatively her hematocrit was stable at 36.3 and a
creatinine of 0.7. She was switched over the C-PAP, started
Lasix diuresis and the weaning to extubation was begun.

On house day 2 she had been extubated the evening prior and
Neo-Synephrine was off with no drips and at the time was
doing very well. The chest tubes were removed. Also on
postoperative day 2 she did require some frequent
reorientation, was responding appropriately, but was unable
to tell place, time and certain events, but was oriented to
her name and birth date, and knew that she was in the
hospital for heart surgery. She required some assistance for
moving in and out of the bed. She was switched over to oral
analgesics. She did continue in atrial fibrillation and was
back on a heparin drip.

By postoperative day 3 she had dropped her urine output once
and received an IV fluid bolus. Her heparin was increased
over the course of the day to make her therapeutic, and was
back on a Neo-Synephrine drip at 1.2 with plans to continue
to wean that over the day. She was also restarted on her
aspirin and was receiving Lasix twice a day. She was also
screened by the clinical nutrition team.

Over the course of the next several days her heparin
continued to remain therapeutic. It was adjusted
appropriately. Her beta blockade was withheld at the time for
atrial fibrillation and a blood pressure of 101/57. Her
pacing wires remained in place. Her Neo-Synephrine was
titrated for her blood pressure support. The Neo was weaned
off completely on postoperative day 5. Her Foley was
discontinued and she was given her first dose of Coumadin
that evening. Magnesium and potassium were repleted as
necessary and she began gentle beta blockade with Lopressor,
12.5 mg po twice a day.

On postoperative day 3 she had some wheezing. Her blood
pressure was up a little bit, as well as her heart rate. She
was given some Esmolol and some nitroglycerin to bring her
pressure back down out of the 150's. She was satting well at
97% on 2 liters with a blood pressure of 158/78 at the time
of initial morning evaluation. Her A wires have been pulled
the evening prior and her V wires were pulled on the morning
of postoperative day #6. She had some clearing of her
confusion on postoperative day 7. She was given an oral boost
3 times a day for nutritional support, and her Foley was
finally removed on postoperative day 7. Her beta blockade was
increased to 25 twice a day. Her confusion continued to
clear. She continued to receive her Coumadin dosing. Her
heparin was increased from 800 to 900 on postoperative day 8,
and her Metoprolol was back down to 12.5 mg po 3 times a day
for better blood pressure control. She remained in atrial
fibrillation as she had chronically.

On house day 9 she was transferred out to the floor and was
evaluated again by case management for planning for
disposition. Her urinalysis from [**5-5**] showed some white
blood cells and a few bacteria. During the course of the day,
though, the patient refused laboratory draws twice when she
was approached for blood work. She continued to have some
confusion, but was alert and oriented x3 at times during the
day with occasional hallucinating and admitting to seeing
people that were not present. Her sternal incision was
stable. Her incision was clean, dry and intact. She was
climbing out of bed and required 1 to 1 sitters, which were
reinstituted. Her Foley, which had been reinserted, was again
removed and she was put back on Bactrim DS 1 po, which was
her original preoperative management drug. She continued on
her Bactrim and remained periodically disoriented, but she
was moving all extremities well and responding appropriatel