Admission Date:  [**2191-4-8**]     Discharge Date:  [**2191-4-22**]


Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 82-year-old
African-American male with a known history of prostate
cancer, carcinoid syndrome and interstitial lung disease
secondary to asbestos exposure with an admitted in [**2190-2-21**] for pneumonia.

At baseline, the patient has shortness of breath and dyspnea
on exertion.  Two days prior to admission, the patient
believes that he acquired a cold because he subsequently
developed a cough that was nonproductive.  The patient had
mild wheezing and a temperature as high as 100.1 degrees one
day prior to admission.  The patient's shortness of breath
increased with exertion and when lying flat.  The patient
stated that walking him "really short of breath," and that
this was relieved by rest.  The patient denied nausea or
vomiting, diaphoresis, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, chest
pain, and palpitations. No recent history of recent
myocardial infarction.  No history of syncope.  No history of
lightheadedness.  No history of lower extremity edema.  No
history of weight gain.  No anxiety.  No leg pain.  The
patient admitted to a good appetite and oral intake.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Prostate cancer diagnosed in [**2181**], status post radiation
therapy with radiation proctitis evidenced by bright red
blood per rectum.
 2.  Asbestosis.
 3.  Gout.
 4.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 5.  Hypertension.
 6.  Chronic renal failure with a bowel sounds creatinine
of 2.2 to 2.6.
 7.  Duodenal carcinoid tumor.
 8.  Retropharyngeal abscess.
 9.  History of gastrointestinal bleed.
10.  Iron deficiency anemia.
11.  Gallstones.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Actigall 300 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
allopurinol 300 mg p.o. q.d., Prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Celebrex 200 mg p.o. q.d., Norvasc 10 mg p.o. q.d., albuterol
and Azmacort meter-dosed inhaler, vitamin C, iron, folic
acid.

ALLERGIES:  SULFONAMIDES.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and lives in
[**Hospital1 8**].

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was deferred.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Review of systems as in History of
Present Illness.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed a temperature of 98.7, heart rate
of 110, blood pressure of 110/70, respiratory rate of 20,
oxygen saturation of 96% on 2 liters.  In general, the
patient is an elderly African-American male with oxygen by
nasal cannula, breathing with effort.  Head and neck
examination revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.  The
oropharynx was clear.  No lymphadenopathy.  No thyromegaly.
Respiratory revealed the patient was audibly grunting, dense
crackles at bases with egophony.  Cardiovascular revealed a
regular rate and rhythm.  Extremities revealed no clubbing,
cyanosis or edema.  Neurologic examination revealed cranial
nerves II through XII were intact.  Sensory and motor
examinations were intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory
examination on admission revealed a white blood cell count
of 7.2, hematocrit of 29.8 (which is decrease from baseline
hematocrit of 35.8), platelets of 202.  Sodium of 141,
potassium of 5.1, chloride of 111, bicarbonate of 18, blood
urea nitrogen of 141, creatinine of 2.5, blood glucose
of 136.  Differential with 58 neutrophils, 22 bands,
14 lymphocytes.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus
rhythm at 95 beats per minute, normal axis and intervals,
with no acute changes.

Chest x-ray revealed no cardiopulmonary process.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Impression was that this was an 82-year-old
gentleman with a history of underlying lung disease
presenting with increased shortness of breath and dyspnea on
exertion with significant bandemia and increased oxygen
requirement.  The clinical impression was that the patient
had acquired a community-acquired pneumonia.

1.  PULMONARY:  The patient was initially admitted to the
general medical floor for treatment of a community-acquired
pneumonia.  The patient was placed on levofloxacin by mouth
with the intent to finish a 2-week course in addition to
intravenous Solu-Medrol.

The patient initially did well, but he subsequently proceeded
to experience increased shortness of breath, increasing
oxygen requirement, and an increasing white blood cell count,
with an increasing blood urea nitrogen and creatinine, and
worsening acidosis.

The Medical Intensive Care Unit team came to evaluate the
patient while he was still on the general medical floor and
discontinued to admit the patient to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit for hypoxic respiratory failure (PO2 was 54 on a
100% nonrebreather).

A CT of the chest was done on the day prior to transfer to
the Medical Intensive Care Unit to evaluate the patient's
worsening status and was consistent with a multilobar
pneumonia with honey combing consistent with the patient's
underlying interstitial lung disease.

On admission to the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the
patient's antibiotic coverage was broadened, and the patient
was placed on intravenous Levaquin as well as intravenous
vancomycin.  The patient was initially placed on BiPAP with
the intent of immediately broadening the patient's antibiotic
coverage and giving time for the intravenous antibiotics to
start working and possibly avoiding intubation with
administration of BiPAP.  However, the patient became
persistently more hypercarbic and acidotic while on BiPAP,
after which the decision was made to intubate the patient.
While intubated, for the first several days, the patient's
respiratory status had stabilized.  The patient's sputum was
continuously suctioned from the endotracheal tube.

Despite broad coverage with antibiotics, the patient's white
blood cell count remained very elevated (at 20) with
continuous copious sputum production.  At this point, a
repeat chest CT was obtained one week after intubation which
showed an incomplete resolution of the original infiltrate on
chest CT and a new large right-sided consolidation.  At this
point, the patient's antibiotic coverage was broadened to
include both ceftazidime as well as Flagyl to cover for a
nosocomial pneumonia and for the possibility of an aspiration
pneumonia.

Blood cultures were obtained to work the etiology for
persistent elevated white blood cell count and low-grade
temperatures.  A blood culture from [**4-17**] revealed 1/4
bottles positive for vancomycin-resistant enterococcus.  At
this point, vancomycin was discontinued and the patient was
started on linezolid.

As the patient's clinical status worsened, with worsening
hypotension (which was presumed secondary to sepsis),
worsening hypoxemia, worsening renal failure, and increased
volume overload the ceftazidime, Flagyl, and levofloxacin
were all held in order to minimize intravenous fluids input
with the intent of minimizing the patient's edema, and
linezolid was continued.

With increased volume overload and incomplete resolution of
the pneumonia, the patient became persistently hypoxic until
the time of demise.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient's blood pressure was
initially well maintained on admission to the Intensive Care
Unit.  The patient was intermittently placed on his
outpatient antihypertensive regimen.  However, as the patient
became frankly septic and had a decreasing blood pressure,
antihypertensives were discontinued.  With ongoing infection
and sepsis, the patient's blood pressure had continued to
decline.

A family meeting was held several days prior to demise where
the family requested that no pressors be used, and the
patient was made do not resuscitate.

The patient was given intermittent fluid boluses to support
blood pressure in the meantime.  However, as it was evident
that the patient was becoming grossly volume overloaded and
that the fluid boluses were not helping to maintain blood
pressure in an acceptable range, the fluid boluses were
discontinued.

3.  RENAL:  The patient's baseline creatinine was 2.3 to 2.6.
Throughout the hospital course, the patient's renal function
worsened.  The patient was presumed to have developed acute
tubular necrosis in the setting of sepsis on admission.

The patient's creatinine had increased t