Admission Date:  [**2155-6-2**]       Discharge Date:  [**2155-6-14**]


Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 89-year-old
female with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation and interstitial
lung disease who presented to the [**Hospital3 3834**] on
[**2155-6-1**] with a chief complaint of chest pain.  The patient
reported making her bed on the morning of [**6-1**] when she
collapsed.  The patient denied prodrome or loss of
consciousness.  She noted epigastric pain, nausea, but denied
chest pain, shortness of breath, diaphoresis at the time.  At
the outside hospital, the patient had a creatinine of 1.7, CK
of 138, MB of 12 with an index of 9.2 and a troponin of 2.54.
Electrocardiogram showed ST elevations of 4 to 5 mm in leads
2, 3 as well as in the right sided leads.  The patient had a
Q wave in 4 and F.  She was transferred to [**Hospital6 1760**] for catheter.  In the
catheter lab, she had elevated right sided pressures with a
right atrial pressure of 13 and RVEDP of 13 and dip and
plateau physiology.  Ejection fraction was 45%.  The patient
had severe inferior hypokinesis.  No lytics were given at the
outside hospital.  There was no intervention taken in the
catheter lab.  The patient was transferred to the C-Med floor
and at 9 p.m. on the night of the procedure, the patient
developed hypertension and bradycardia.  She did not respond
to atropine.  She could not be paced transcutaneously and was
started on dopamine and transferred to the CCU.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease, status post myocardial
infarction
2.  Atrial fibrillation
3.  Interstitial lung disease
4.  Hypertension
5.  Status post tonsillectomy

ALLERGIES:  METOPROLOL WHICH CAUSES A RASH.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Aspirin
2.  Hydrochlorothiazide
3.  Prempro

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a family physician.  [**Name10 (NameIs) **]
lives with her [**Age over 90 **]-year-old husband.  Denies tobacco or
alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory

PHYSICAL EXAM:
VITAL SIGNS:  The patient's pulse was 70, blood pressure
133/50, respiratory rate of 21 and oxygen saturation of 98%
on 100% nonrebreather.
GENERAL:  The patient was an ill appearing female in no
apparent distress.  She was agitated.
HEAD, EARS, EYES, NOSE AND THROAT:  Extraocular muscles are
intact.  Pupils equally round and reactive to light, moist
mucous membranes.
NECK:  No lymphadenopathy.  There was jugular venous
distention that was difficult to assess.
CARDIAC:  Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1, S2 and no
murmurs, rubs or gallops.
PULMONARY:  Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.
ABDOMEN:  Soft, nontender, nondistended with normoactive
bowel sounds.
EXTREMITIES:  No edema.  The patient had 2+ DP pulses.
RECTAL:  Guaiac positive.
NEUROLOGIC:  Patient was agitated.  She had a low hertz
tremor of the upper extremities.  She had movement in all
four extremities.  She had 2+ biceps, patellar and deep
tendon reflexes and downgoing plantar reflexes.

PERTINENT LABORATORY FINDINGS:  The patient had a white blood
cell count of 17.6 with a hematocrit of 33.2 and platelets of
240.  Her creatinine was 1.1.  The patient had an anion gap
of 21.  CK was 972 with an MB of 133 and an index of 13.7.
This rose to 981 with an MB of 137.  The patient had a
lactate of 4.8.  The patient had an initial arterial blood
gases of pH 7.25, PCO2 of 33 and PAO2 of 393.  Repeat
revealed pH of 7.31, PCO2 of 33 and PAO2 of 368.
Electrocardiogram revealed a junctional escape rhythm at 40
with normal axis, right bundle branch block and ST elevations
in 3 and F and ST depressions in L.  Cardiac catheterization
revealed right atrial pressure of 13, RVDP of 13, LVEDP of
13.  Cardiac output was 4.53 with a cardiac index to 2.63.
The patient had a right dominant system with a mid LAD lesion
of 50%, left circumflex OM lesion of 40% and a proximal RCA
lesion of 50%.  The patient had a diagonal 40% to 50% lesion
and a distal PDA 80%.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 89-year-old
female, past medical history of coronary artery disease,
status post myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation,
hypertension and interstitial lung disease who presented with
an IMI and RV extension and now with severe bradycardia and
hypertension.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient presented with a history of
coronary artery disease, status post myocardial infarction in
the past, now with inferior myocardial infarction, severe RV
extension with hypertension, bradycardia and cardiogenic
shock.  From a coronary artery disease standpoint, the
patient had three vessel disease with suspected RCA culprit
that had largely become patent by the time of the first
catheterization and there was no intervention performed.  The
patient has symptomatic bradycardia and hypotension.  On
transfer to the unit, the patient continued to have episodes
of bradycardia and hypotension despite dopamine.  It was
decided to take the patient back to the cardiac
catheterization lab for a second look.  There was no change.
Electrophysiology was consulted and felt that the patient's
bradycardia was likely related to AV dysfunction and that a
temporary pacing wire was not indicated at that point.  The
patient was maintained on aspirin, Plavix and Aggrastat.
From a myocardium standpoint, the patient had an IMI with RV
extension and elevated right ventricular pressures.  Because
of the patient's hypertension and RV infarcts, the patient
was aggressively volume resuscitated.

Bedside echocardiogram was done and revealed RV hypokinesis
and inferior hypokinesis, otherwise relatively normal LV
function.  From a conduction standpoint, the patient had a
junctional escape rhythm likely secondary to her ischemic
heart disease.  She had an initial response to dopamine with
increase in heart rate and blood pressure.  It was not felt
that the patient needed a temporary wire at that point.
Electrophysiology followed the patient.  The day after
admission to the CCU, the patient continued to have
hypotension and bradycardia not responding to inotropes and
.........otropes.  She had been switched from dopamine to
dobutamine.  Lactate continued to be elevated.  EP decided to
place a temporary pacing wire.  The patient also had a PA
catheter placed in order to monitor the patient and ensure a
physiologic cardiac output.  The patient required intubation
for control of her acidosis.  The day after temporary pacer
placement, the patient's cardiac output had improved.  It had
become evident that the patient's pacemaker had not been
capturing.  The EP fellow had been called and the set rate
was increased.  The patient had episodes of nonsustained
ventricular tachycardia thought to be secondary to dobutamine
and this was weaned off.  The patient's acid base status
improved with an improved cardiac output.  The patient was
markedly hypertensive in the post infarct and was started on
intravenous enalaprilat with little effect.  This was then
transitioned to intravenous hydralazine with excellent
results.  The temporary wire was removed.

The patient had an episode of tachypnea and shortness of
breath and a chest x-ray revealed some evidence of congestive
heart failure likely related to vigorous volume
resuscitation.  The patient responded excellently with 20 mg
intravenous of Lasix.  The patient had episodes of
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia in the setting of
relative bradycardia after the temporary wire was removed.
EP was reconsulted for possible placement of a new temporary
pacing wire versus permanent pacemaker placement.  The
patient's rhythm changed to atrial fibrillation.  She was
started on low molecular weight heparin.  Eventually, her
hydralazine was switched to captopril which she responded
very well to.  The patient ultimately underwent permanent
pacemaker placement.  The pacemaker was complicated by
episodes of ventricular tachycardia and ventricular
fibrillation in the EP lab after administration of ibutilide.
The patient was easily cardioverted with 200 joules.  The
patient had a repeat echocardiogram that had an ejection
fraction of greater than 55%, pulmonary artery hyper