Admission Date:  [**2121-6-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2121-7-2**]

Date of Birth:   [**2059-8-14**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU
CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61-year-old
male with a past medical history of hypertension and a
history of a normal coronary catheterization five years ago,
admission, when he had a presyncopal episode while standing.
He notes for the last few weeks he has had progressively
worsening orthopnea, lower extremity edema and shortness of
breath.  Family also notes he has had much increased stress
at work.  They also note a fever about three weeks prior to
admission.

to be in atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular
response and a systolic blood pressure in the 70s.  He was
given 1 liter of intravenous fluids.  He was cardioverted
into normal sinus rhythm.  The patient then developed
paroxysm of shortness of breath, as well as facial cyanosis,
that increased when laying flat.  He developed profound
respiratory distress and required intubation.  After
intubation, he became hypotensive and was started on
dopamine.  He had a CT angiogram that was negative for a
pulmonary embolus.  The patient on x-ray and exam was found
to be in congestive heart failure, and received 40 mg of
intravenous Lasix with some diuresis and improvement in his
hypoxia on the ventilator in the Emergency Department.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension
2.  Cardiac catheterization five years ago at [**Hospital 1263**] Hospital
with clean coronaries
3.  Question mitral valve prolapse

ADMISSION MEDICATION:  The patient had previously been on
atenolol which he discontinued due to inability to refill.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient drinks two martinis a day, denies
any intravenous drug use, denies any blood transfusions.  He
worked in the police commissioner's office.  He is married
and lives with his wife and has several children.

FAMILY HISTORY:  His mother had a history of a myocardial
infarction and congestive heart failure in her 80s and a
sister with hypertension.

ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM:
VITAL SIGNS:  Blood pressure 95/69, heart rate 96, saturating
99% while on a ventilator set at AC, tidal volume 700, rate
of 12 and PEEP of 10.  He was 2 liters negative when first
seen in the Emergency Department.
GENERAL:  The patient is a sedated, intubated male.
HEAD, EARS, EYES, NOSE AND THROAT:  Exam is significant for
extreme cyanosis of ears, cheeks and nose, as well as
forehead.
NECK:  Right IJ in place.  Jugular venous distention to jaw.
LUNGS:  Coarse breath sounds throughout bilaterally.
CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1, S2, no
murmurs, rubs or gallops.
ABDOMEN:  Obese, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel
sounds.
EXTREMITIES:  Cool, trace pulses, cyanotic toes.
NEUROLOGIC:  Patient sedated.

LABORATORY STUDIES ON ADMISSION:  PT 15, PTT 31, INR 1.6.
White count 6.8, hematocrit 47.6, platelets 109, MCV 108.
Arterial blood gases 7.45, 33 and 298 while intubated.
Sodium 137, potassium 3.5, chloride 103, bicarbonate 23, BUN
16 and CT 1.0.  Glucose of 160.  Urinalysis with positive
nitrites with greater than 300 protein and 4+ urobilinogen.
Alcohol level was 27.  AST was 169, ALT 152, alkaline
phosphatase 102 and total bilirubin of 1.9 and direct of 0.7.
Magnesium was 2.0.  TSH was within normal limits.  First CK
was 253.  Chest x-ray showed congestive heart failure with an
ETT and right IJ in place.  CT angiogram showed no evidence
of pulmonary embolus, cardiomegaly and bilateral pleural
effusions.  Echocardiogram on admission - left atrium was
mildly dilated, severe global LV hypokinesis, severe global
RV free wall hypokinesis, no right to left shunt and ejection
fraction of about 20.  Electrocardiogram - initial was atrial
fibrillation at a rate of 158 with left axis deviation and
T-wave inversions from V4 to V6.  Electrocardiogram on
arrival to the floor was normal sinus with left axis
deviation, left atrial enlargement, RSR prime pattern and
T-wave inversions in V1 through V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:
A.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient had previous
cardiac catheterization five years ago that was within normal
limits.  The patient had his cardiac enzymes cycled and he
ruled out for myocardial infarction.  He had a cardiac
catheterization on [**7-1**] which showed normal coronary
arteries.  At this time, aspirin was discontinued.

B.  PUMP FUNCTION:  The patient presented with severe
congestive heart failure requiring intubation.  He was
diuresed aggressively with Lasix and ultimately put on a dose
of 40 po qd of standing Lasix.  The patient was extubated
after his pulmonary status improved with the significant
diuresis.  His ejection fraction was estimated to be 20% with
severe hypokinesis on his echocardiogram and on his cardiac
catheterization again his ejection fraction was estimated at
about 25%.  Of note, on his catheter he had anterior basal,
lateral, apical, inferior and posterior basal hypokinesis.
The patient did have a Swan-Ganz catheter placed for his
management of his congestive heart failure and required
dopamine during part of his hospital stay.  He was initially
found when the Swan-Ganz catheter was placed on the 19th to
have a wedge of 30, cardiac output of 4.6 and an index of
1.99.  He ultimately had milrinone added to the dopamine, and
then dopamine was changed to Levophed.  Levophed was then
weaned off as the patient's blood pressure tolerated.  He was
on milrinone until the 23rd when it was weaned off without
difficulty.  He was put on a po regimen for his congestive
heart failure that included captopril 100 tid, aldactone 25
qd, Lasix 40 qd and ultimately carvedilol 3.125 [**Hospital1 **].  At one
point, he was on digoxin for his heart failure and his atrial
fibrillation.  His heart failure was thought likely to be
secondary acutely to his atrial fibrillation.

C.  RHYTHM:  The patient was initially found in atrial
fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response, and was
cardioverted in the Emergency Department.  He then was in
sinus rhythm initially on the floor and then went into atrial
fibrillation again on the 19th with a rapid rate in the 150s.
He was placed on an amiodarone drip after receiving an
amiodarone bolus and had multiple boluses due to refractory
atrial fibrillation.  Cardioversion was performed at both 200
and 300, and the patient failed.  He was maintained on
amiodarone drip and then converted to po for which he was on
400 tid for about two weeks.  On discharge, he was sent home
on 400 qd for one week and then a maintenance dose of 200 qd.
The patient will need cardioversion in four weeks for his
atrial fibrillation.  He will be on anticoagulation,
discharged on Lovenox and Coumadin with a goal INR of 2.0.
The patient was also on digoxin for rate control; this was
discontinued prior to discharge and the patient was started
on carvedilol 3.125 [**Hospital1 **].  His heart rate was well controlled
on this regimen.

2.  PULMONARY:  The patient was initially found to be in
acute pulmonary edema requiring intubation.  His acidosis
improved while intubated.  He was profoundly cyanotic in the
Emergency Room, and this progressively improved well on
mechanical ventilation.  His hypoxia that was initially
present while ventilated also improved with diuresis.  The
patient was able to be weaned from the ventilator without
much difficulty.  He had a prolonged period of sedation after
extubation likely from sedating medications he had received.
He was extubated on the 22nd and did not require further
intubation.  His fluid status was managed with po Lasix, as
well as prn Lasix to keep him even to slightly negative
daily.

3.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  On admission, the patient was found to
have elevated transaminases, bilirubin and PT and INR.  He
had hepatitis serologies sent which had positive hepatitis C
antibody as well as positive hepatitis B surface antibody
indicating previous immunization.  The patient had a
hepatitis C viral load sent  prior to discharge which is
unavailable at time of dictation.  He also had iron studies
with an elevated ferritin, but all other values were within
normal l