Admission Date:  [**2144-11-29**]     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:                  Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICINE

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Mental status change.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 81 year-old
gentleman with a history of hypertension, diabetes, hard of
hearing, history of worsening memory loss for the past month
who went to [**First Name5 (NamePattern1) 745**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 18896**] Emergency Room yesterday
complaining of acute onset of cervical neck pain and back
pain along with some gait unsteadiness.  The patient was
diagnosed with cervical neck pain and discharged with
Percocet and Norflex.  Of note the patient's sugars on
discharge were about 450.  The patient over the past 24 hours
since his discharge has been taking Percocet and Norflex and
per family has become increasing confused and disoriented
leading to his Emergency Room visit.

In the Emergency Room the patient was seen by neurology who
recommended a CT to rule out a stroke, but secondary to the
patient's noncompliance a head CT was performed, which was
negative.  The patient also had a temperature spike to 101.8
in the Emergency Room.  Two sets of blood cultures were drawn
and LP was performed and the patient was brought to the
floor.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Diabetes, hypertension, prostate
cancer no known metastasis and hard of hearing.

MEDICATIONS:  Zestril 10 mg q.d., Procardia 30 mg q.d.,
Isosorbide 45 mg q.d., Glipizide 5 mg b.i.d., Glucophage 1000
a.m. 500 p.m., Fluoxetine 20 mg q.d.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] has
been independent of most activities of daily living and IDL,
although wife admits that he has had some progressive memory
loss and confusion over the past month.  He denies any
tobacco or alcohol currently.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 101.8.  Pulse 96.
Respiratory rate 22.  Blood pressure 178/66.  Sating 98% on 2
liters.  In general, the patient was lying in bed, agitated,
disoriented, communicating, but not appropriately.  HEENT
pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.  Oropharynx is
clear.  Mucous membranes are dry.  Neck full range of motion.
No stiff neck.  No neck tenderness.  No tenderness elicited
over the cervical spine.  Chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Cardiac regular rate.  No murmurs.  Abdomen
bowel sounds positive, soft, nontender.  Extremities no
edema.  Good distal pulses.  Neurological, the patient was
again disoriented and agitated, although moved all
extremities spontaneously and appropriately.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White count 13.7 with 88% polys,
6% lymphs, hematocrit 38.2, platelet 203.  SMA 7 sodium 126,
potassium 4.0, chloride 89, bicarb 23, BUN 19, creatinine
0.9, glucose 267.  INR 1.2.  Urinalysis showed large blood,
but was nitrite negative, 6 year-old 10 red cells, no white
cells.  Cerebral spinal fluid showed only 3 white cells and 5
red cells.  Gram stain showed no organisms.  Protein 48,
glucose 155, culture broth came back positive for coagulation
negative staph and group A strep like skin contaminants.  The
patient had two sets of cardiac enzymes.  The first set 53
with a troponin of 4.9.  The second set 131 CK with a
troponin o f5.9.  The patient's head CT revealed no acute
intracranial pathology.  The patient's chest x-ray revealed
no infiltrate or effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Mental status change:  The patient
presenting with a mental status change most likely secondary
to the percocet and Norflex prescribed at an outside hospital
for his neck pain.  However, contributing factors including
hyponatremia with a sodium of 126, possible infectious
etiology, although a urinalysis was negative.  Chest x-ray
was negative and initial LP was negative.  Later the LP came
back with bacteria in the cerebral spinal fluid broth and
finally the possible etiology includes a cerebrovascular
accident, although initial head CT was negative.  The patient
was unable to go for an MRI.  Neurology was consulted.  They
felt that MR angio with a fat sat needed to be performed to
rule out a carotid artery dissection.  MR C spine also needed
to further assess the etiology of the patient's initial neck
pain.

The patient remained delirious for most of his stay.  Sodium
was corrected with intravenous fluids.  All narcotics and
benzos were held.  The patient was started on Ceftriaxone and
Vancomycin empirically for the organisms that grew out in the
cerebral spinal fluid broth.  The patient was eventually able
to go for an MRI after he was sedated, which ended up being
negative.  No evidence of an acute stroke.  No evidence of
carotid artery dissection.  No evidence of any pathology in
his cervical spine.  Finally on [**2144-11-20**] hospital day
eleven, the patient's mental status returned to baseline.
The patient was oriented times three although still had
difficulty communicating secondary to hard of hearing.  A dry
erase board was needed in order to communicate for the
patient.

Most likely etiology of the patient's mental status was toxic
metabolic secondary to narcotics and Flexeril probable
exacerbated by an aspiration pneumonia.

2.  Infectious disease:  Patient initially admitted with an
elevated white count and fever to 101.8, although initial
chest x-ray and urinalysis and urine culture were negative
and an LP was preliminary negative, the cerebral spinal fluid
broth eventually grew out group A strep and coagulation
negative staph.  The patient was started on Ceftriaxone and
Vancomycin empirically.  However, the organisms were
identified as contaminants and 72 hours after his start of
antibiotics the patient's antibiotics were discontinued at
which point the patient desatted to 83% on room air, this
happened on [**12-1**].  The patient satted at 83%, which
improved to 95% on a nonrebreather.  A chest x-ray was
performed, which revealed multi focal pneumonia most likely
secondary to aspiration.  On the following day the patient
was started on intravenous Clindamycin with initial
improvement, but as the patient was continued on his
nonrebreather he started to tire and the MICU was consulted.
An ABG was performed, which revealed a PAO2 of around 59 on
his nonrebreather.  The patient was taken to the MICU and
intubated and the patient stayed for two days successfully
weaned off, continued on antibiotics.  The aspiration
pneumonia seemed to improve.  The patient's antibiotics
Ceftriaxone and Vancomycin were switched over to po
Levofloxacin initially and then the patient's pneumonia was
being treated with intravenous Levaquin and intravenous
Clindamycin.  The patient was brought back to the floor where
his O2 sats continued to improve and his pneumonia on repeat
chest x-ray also appeared to be improving.  The patient has
been afebrile now for over seven days.

3.  Cardiac:  The patient initially presented with a troponin
leak maxing at 5.9 at which time the patient was started on
aspirin, intravenous Lopressor and nitropaste.  The patient
was started on intravenous heparin, which ran for
approximately 48 hours at which time the troponin started to
trend back down initially down to 2.7 and then finally back
to baseline less then .3.  The patient's heparin was
discontinued.  The patient continued on aspirin, beta blocker
and nitropaste.  The patient continued on telemetry.
Electrocardiogram did not reveal any acute ST or T changes.
The patient did not complain of any chest pain.  Most likely
the patient's agitation and increased blood pressure led to
demand ischemia and a troponin leak, which resolved with
time.  Echocardiogram was performed on the patient, which
revealed normal EF and normal left ventricular function.  The
patient continued throughout his stay on aspirin, beta
blocker, nitropaste as needed, chest pain free without any
electrocardiogram changes with flat troponin.

4.  Diabetes:  The patient admitted with type 2 diabetes
initially on Glipizide and Glucophage, however, these were
discontinued as the patient was unable to take any po
medications.  The patient started on a regular insulin
sliding scale with q.i.d. finger sticks.  Early on in the
patient's stay [**Last Name (un) **] was consult