Admission Date:  [**2135-9-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2135-9-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2068-1-20**]     Sex:  M

Service:  C-MED

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 67-year-old
male with type 2 diabetes mellitus and coronary artery
disease (status post anterior myocardial infarction with
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty/stent of the
left anterior descending artery 10 years ago) who now
presents with bright red blood per rectum and non-Q-wave
myocardial infarction.

The patient was in his usual state of health until [**2135-9-5**] when he developed five episodes of dark brown emesis in
the afternoon.  Thirty minutes later, the patient developed
bright red blood per rectum with approximately one cup of
blood each time.  The patient saw Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] the following day,
and his hematocrit was drawn which was 33 (which was down
from his baseline of 40).  The patient subsequently was
instructed to go to the Emergency Room at the [**Hospital1 346**].

Prior to this, the patient had been experiencing worsening
heartburn for the past two weeks.  The patient continued with
nausea and vomiting (brown, no coffee-grounds emesis or
bright red blood).  The patient denies abdominal pain,
fevers, chills, or shortness of breath.  The patient does say
he has diaphoresis.

In the Emergency Room, the patient developed chest pressure
of [**2-6**] with electrocardiogram changes consistent with
lateral ischemia.  The patient had an elevated creatine
kinase, MB, and troponin levels.  Hematocrit was 30, and the
patient was transfused with 2 units of packed red blood cells
with minimal hematocrit bump.  An nasogastric lavage in the
Emergency Room was negative.  The patient was seen by Surgery
and an endoscopy was performed which was negative for any
sign of bleeding.  The patient was given sublingual
nitroglycerin with relief of the chest pain.

Upon further history, the patient had been having worsening
angina over the past one and a half months.  The patient went
from having angina "once in a blue moon" to approximately two
to three times per week; always relieved with one sublingual
nitroglycerin.  The patient denies any shortness of breath,
orthopnea, and may have had two episodes of paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus for the last 10 years; on
insulin.
2.  Coronary artery disease; status post anterior myocardial
infarction 10 years ago with percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty and stent times two in the left anterior
descending artery, first diagonal, and second diagonal.
3.  Hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Insulin 70/30 46 units q.a.m. and 12 units q.p.m.
2.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  Avapro 150 mg p.o. q.d.
4.  Protonix.
5.  Vitamin E.
6.  Lopressor 100 mg p.o. q.d.
7.  Lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d.
8.  Vitamin B.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies tobacco or alcohol use.
He lives in [**Location **] with his wife.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father passed away from a cerebrovascular
accident at the age of 48.  Mother had [**Name (NI) 2481**] disease.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   In general, the
patient was an obese Caucasian male who was sitting up in
bed, in no acute distress.  Temperature was 97.7, pulse
was 115, respiratory rate was 18, blood pressure was 140/80,
oxygen saturation was 95% on 4 liters.  Head, eyes, ears,
nose, and throat revealed no jugular venous distention.
Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements were intact.  Lungs with bibasilar crackles half
the way up.  Cardiovascular was tachycardic, regular, a 3/6
systolic ejection murmur at the right upper sternal border
which radiated to the carotids.  There were no gallops or
rubs.  The abdomen had positive bowel sounds, soft,
nontender, and nondistended.  Extremities revealed 1+ edema
bilaterally to the midshins.  Rectal was guaiac-positive
brown stool.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   White blood cell
count was 14.9, hematocrit was 30.7 (which increased to 31.4
after 2 units of packed red blood cells), platelets were 210.
Sodium was 139, potassium was 4.5, chloride was 106,
bicarbonate was 20, blood urea nitrogen was 24, creatinine
was 0.9, and blood glucose was 167.  Creatine kinase was 190,
MB was 12, troponin I was 6.1.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at
a rate of 100 beats per minute with a slight left axis
deviation, normal intervals; 2-mm ST depressions in leads I,
aVL, V5, and V6; 1-mm ST elevations in V1 through V3; Q waves
in V1; questionable Q waves in V2 and V3 as well.  Positive
left ventricular hypertrophy in aVL.

A chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly without congestive heart
failure, pneumonia, or effusions.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE:  The patient was admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.  The patient had an acute
non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction in the setting of a
gastrointestinal bleed.

It was unclear whether the gastrointestinal bleed or the
cardiac issues were the primary event, as the patient could
have had demand ischemia in the setting of a large
gastrointestinal bleed or the patient could have had a
primary cardiac event which led to nausea and vomiting,
gastrointestinal stress leading to a gastrointestinal bleed.

On hospital day two, the patient's cardiac enzymes peaked to
a creatine kinase of 656, with a MB of 66, and a troponin
level of greater than 50.  An echocardiogram was obtained
which showed severe regional left ventricular systolic
dysfunction with an ejection fraction of less than 20%.  Wall
motion abnormalities included anteroseptal, anterior,
lateral, and apical akinesis.  There was moderate-to-severe
aortic stenosis, 1+ aortic regurgitation, 1+ mitral
regurgitation, and a small pericardial effusion.

Given the patient's severely depressed ejection fraction in
the setting of mildly peaked creatine kinases, it was thought
that the patient's loss of cardiac function was likely due to
a remote or subacute event.  In addition, a left subclavian
cordis was placed for a PA catheter measurements, which
showed TVP of 13, pulmonary artery pressures of 55/37,
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 18, cardiac output
through thrombodilution of 8.9, STR of 404.

The patient was started low-dose beta blocker and low-dose
ACE inhibitor given his severely depressed ejection fraction.
Anticoagulation was held given the setting of the
gastrointestinal bleed.  In addition, the patient was
diuresed with Lasix on an as needed basis.

The patient was transferred out of the Medical Intensive Care
Unit to the C-MED Service on [**2135-9-8**].  The patient
did not have any further episodes of chest pain nor symptoms
of active ischemia including shortness of breath or
diaphoresis.

Lateral ST changes were resolved on electrocardiogram on
[**9-9**].

The patient underwent cardiac catheterization on [**9-12**]
which revealed moderately severe aortic stenosis with an
aortic valve area of 0.73, elevated filling pressures, 80%
proximal in-stent restenosis with 90% focal in-stent
restenosis in the left anterior descending artery with poor
filling beyond the diagonal branch, mid 50% stenosis in the
left circumflex, and mild diffuse disease in the right
coronary artery.  No interventions were performed since
anticoagulation could not be given in the setting of a
gastrointestinal bleed.

Cardiothoracic Surgery was consulted to evaluate for a
possible aortic valve replacement with 1-vessel coronary
artery bypass graft.  A tentative date for surgery has been
set for [**2135-9-21**] with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].  The patient will
need to see Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in his office on [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 439**]
before that time, and the patient was to call to make an
appointment.

In addition, status post catheterization the patient had no
complications.  The patient was maintained on an ACE
inhibitor and a beta blocker.

2.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE:  Echocardiogram showed the
patient to have severely depressed left ventricular function
with an ejection fraction of less than 20%.  The patient was
started and maintained on a