Admission Date:  [**2198-1-22**]     Discharge Date:  [**2198-1-22**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an
84-year-old admitted for cardiogenic shock the morning of
admission.  The morning prior to admission, the patient was
not feeling well.  She shoveled snow during the day, felt
short of breath and sweaty during this.  After she came in,
she continued to feel poorly and called her daughter.  She
presented to the [**Hospital3 1443**] ED 12 hours after the
initial onset of discomfort with an 02 saturation of 87%, BP
159/76, pulse 119.  She denied chest pain but had some
epigastric pain and was noted to have inferior ST elevations
and atrial fibrillation.  She was given aspirin, Plavix,
heparin, Integrelin, and Lopressor.

Later, at [**Hospital3 1443**], she had frothy pink sputum and
became hypotensive and unresponsive.  She was intubated and
put on pressors with response.  The laboratories were
consistent with a myocardial infarction.  She was transferred
to [**Hospital1 18**] for emergent catheterization.

She was found to have a 20% left main, LAD proximally
occluded after D1, 80% ramus, 100% proximal circumflex, 80%
proximal RCA with a total occlusion of the distal RCA with an
elevated wedge pressure.  The right coronary artery lesions
were crossed and stented.

During the procedure, she had difficulty oxygenating and was
paralyzed with an increased FI02 and PEEP.  She arrived to
the CCU unstable on dopamine, Integrelin with a balloon pump.
Her heart rate began to drop and then became more
hypotensive.  She was treated with Atropine and epi with no
response and CPR was started for a PEA code.  An emergent
echocardiogram showed no evidence of tamponade and no cardiac
motion.  She eventually responded after 15 minutes to the
above treatments as well as bicarbonate, calcium, and several
more doses of epi and Atropine.  A stat crit showed a 12
point hematocrit drop and she had blood oozing from her nose,
mouth, and NG tube.  Integrelin was stopped.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to codeine.

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1.  Glucotrol.
2.  Plavix.
3.  Lasix.
4.  Avandia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diabetes.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Her neck was supple.  Her
pupils were fixed and dilated.  Heart:  Regular rate and
rhythm with balloon sounds.  Lungs:  Clear anteriorly but
decreased breath sounds posteriorly.  Abdomen:  Her belly was
soft.  Extremities:  She had a right groin hematoma and no
lower extremity edema.

LABORATORY DATA/STUDIES:  The EKG showed persistent ST
elevations in III greater than II with lateral depressions
and atrial fibrillation at a rate of 106.

lactate on admission was 9.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Within an hour, the patient began to
decompensate again with 02 saturations [**Location (un) 1131**] in the 70s
with a good wave form.  A repeat chest x-ray showed bilateral
infiltrates with no pneumothorax and ET tube in good
position.  The patient began to get bradycardiac again with
drop in BP.  Atropine was given and pressures were increased.
The ABG showed a pH of 7.13, lactate 15.

This was discussed with the Cardiology Fellow, intern, and
the patient's daughter about the very grim prognosis due to
extensive CAD with cardiogenic shock and poor forward cardiac
output. Discussed that we were currently resuscitating the
patient
but agreed to no further chest compressions or shocks.
Discussed this with her brother as the patient continued to
get more bradycardiac, hypotensive, and eventually arrested
at 8:45 a.m. and was not resucitated.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Cardiogenic shock secondary to inferior myocardial
infarction.
2.  Diabetes.
3.  Hypertension.


                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 7169**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 13286**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2198-4-25**]  02:02
T:  [**2198-4-25**]  20:39
JOB#:  [**Job Number 47163**]




