Admission Date: [**2146-7-21**]        Discharge Date: [**2146-8-4**]


Service:  CSU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. [**Known lastname 63555**] is an 84-year-old
woman who presented to the [**Hospital6 33**] Emergency
Room on the day prior to admission to [**Hospital1 **] [**Hospital1 **]
complaining of chest pain while gardening. The chest pain
radiated to her neck and jaw. It was associated with
shortness of breath and diaphoresis. A chest x-ray showed
congestive heart failure. One sublingual nitroglycerin was
given, and she became hypotensive. She ruled out for a MI by
enzymes. However, a chest CT done at that time revealed an
ascending aortic dissection originating at the level of the
RCA, and she was emergently transferred to [**Hospital **] [**Hospital **]
[**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] for definitive treatment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for a non-Q-wave MI, AFib,
hypertension, status post cholecystectomy, status post
hemorrhoidectomy, TIA about 10 years ago, and question of
cardiomyopathy.

ALLERGIES:  The patient states no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Include lisinopril (no dose
available), atenolol 50 daily, Lipitor (no dose available),
potassium chloride 20 mEq daily, aspirin 325 daily, vitamin E
(no dose available), and hydrochlorothiazide (questionable).

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Neurologically, alert and
oriented. Moves all extremities. Follows commands. A nonfocal
exam. Pulmonary reveals clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Cardiac reveals a regular rate and rhythm with a [**5-11**]
holosystolic murmur. The abdomen is benign. The extremities
are warm and well perfused with no edema and palpable
dorsalis pedis pulses bilateral.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was evaluated in the emergency
room and brought emergently to the operating room for an
aortic dissection repair. Please see the OR report for full
details. In summary, the patient had an ascending aortic
replacement with a #28 Gelweave graft and an aortic valve
resuspension. Her bypass time was 137 minutes with a cross-
clamp time of 90 minutes and a shock arrest of 27 minutes.
She tolerated the operation well and was transferred from to
the operating room to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit.
At the time of transfer the patient was A paced at 88 beats
per minute with a mean arterial pressure of 74. The patient
did well in the immediate postoperative period. Following an
initial period of recovery the patient's sedation was
discontinued; following which she did open her eyes and move
both arms and legs; however not to command. With this, the
patient became extremely hypertensive and therefore was re-
sedated. Following this, the patient's oxygen demand
increased and therefore it was decided to keep the patient
sedated for an additional day.

On postoperative day 2, the patient removed hemodynamically
stable; on and off of Neo-Synephrine and nitroglycerin drips
to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 60 to 70.
Additionally, the patient's diuresis was begun. It should be
noted throughout this period that the patient had
intermittent periods of atrial fibrillation, for which she
was treated with amiodarone.

On postoperative day 3, the patient continued to have periods
of atrial fibrillation with a ventricular response rate up to
150; for which she was cardioverted on numerous occasions.
She removed on an amiodarone drip and was also treated with
small beta blockade.

On postoperative day 4, the patient was more hemodynamically
stable. Her sedation was again discontinued. Again, she was
awake. However did not follow commands, but we were able to
successfully wean her ventilation.

By postoperative day 5, the patient was having less frequent
periods of atrial fibrillation. She remained on amiodarone
and beta blockade as well. She was fully anticoagulated. The
patient was again on and off of Neo-Synephrine infusion to
maintain an adequate blood pressure. Neurologically she was
awake, moving all extremities, and intermittently following
commands. She was weaned to CPAP on the ventilator; however
did not have the strength to be successfully extubated.

On postoperative days 6 and 7, the patient was awake but
still without strength to be successfully extubated.
Therefore, she remained intubated during that period. She was
intermittently on Neo-Synephrine while she was having her
episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation. During the opposing
times she required Nipride and/or nitroglycerin to control
her hypertensive episodes. On postoperative day 7, the
patient had a flow-by trial and was successfully extubated.

By postoperative day 8, the patient was successfully weaned
from all vasoactive IV medications and converted on to oral
medications. She remained in the ICU during that period
because she continued to have some periods of atrial
fibrillation. Additionally, she required vigorous pulmonary
toilet. For 2 additional days the patient remained in the ICU
for pulmonary toilet. She had no further episodes of atrial
fibrillation. Additionally, on postoperative day 11, the
patient had a left-sided thoracentesis for approximately 600
cc of serosanguineous fluid.

Ultimately, the patient was transferred from the ICU to [**Hospital Ward Name 121**]
Two on postoperative day 11. Once on the floor, the patient
had a relatively uneventful postoperative course. Ultimately,
on postoperative day 13, it was decided that the patient
would be stable and ready for transfer to rehabilitation on
the following day.

At the time of this dictation the patient's physical exam is
as follows: Temperature of 98, heart rate of 81 (sinus
rhythm), blood pressure of 128/64, respiratory rate of 24,
and O2 saturation of 93% on 2 liters. Weight at discharge was
79 kilograms; preoperatively was 78 kilograms. On physical
exam, neurologically alert and oriented. Moves all
extremities. Follows commands, although somewhat weak and
lethargic. Pulmonary reveals breath sounds are diminished
bilaterally. Clear to auscultation in the upper zones.
Cardiac reveals a regular rate and rhythm. S1 and S2. The
sternum is stable. Incision is clean and dry without erythema
or drainage. The abdomen is soft, nontender, and nondistended
with normal active bowel sounds. The extremities are warm and
well perfused with trace edema.

Lab data with a sodium of 138, potassium of 4.3, chloride of
105, CO2 of 23, BUN of 26, creatinine of 0.8, glucose of 131.
White count of 12.3, hematocrit of 31.5, and platelets of
298.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  The patient is to be discharged to
rehabilitation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Status post aortic dissection repair with #28 Gelweave
   graft and an aortic valve resuspension.
2. Atrial fibrillation.
3. Hypertension.
4. Cholecystectomy.
5. Hemorrhoidectomy.
6. Transient ischemic attacks.


DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP:  The patient is to have followup with Dr.
[**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 54392**] in 2 to 3 weeks and to follow up with Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] in 4 weeks.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:  Include Lasix 20 mg daily,
potassium chloride 20 mEq daily, Colace 100 mg b.i.d.,
Tylenol 650 mg q.4.h. as needed, bisacodyl 10 mg daily as
needed, Percocet 5/325 1 to 2 tablets q.4-6h. as needed, Milk
of Magnesia 30 cc daily as needed, aspirin 81 mg daily,
amiodarone 400 mg b.i.d. x 7 days and then 400 mg daily x 7
days and then 200 mg daily, Combivent 2 puffs q.6h. as
needed, pantoprazole 40 mg daily, Flovent 2 puffs b.i.d.,
albuterol 2 puffs q.6h. as needed, Atrovent 2 puffs q.6h. as
needed, miconazole powder 1 application q.i.d. as needed,
labetalol 300 mg t.i.d., and lisinopril 2.5 mg daily.



                        [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D. [**MD Number(2) 5897**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1718**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2146-8-3**] 16:04:18
T:  [**2146-8-3**] 16:57:40
Job#:  [**Job Number 63556**]
