Admission Date:  [**2134-12-12**]       Discharge Date:  [**2135-1-3**]

Date of Birth:   [**2069-2-21**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Service

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 68 year old man
with a two week history of increasing shortness of breath
admitted to the [**Hospital6 2910**] on [**12-6**]
where he ruled in for an myocardial infarction.  The patient
with known cardiomyopathy of unclear etiology with known
coronary artery disease by MIBI echocardiogram, scheduled for
an elective catheterization but had increasing shortness of
breath and dyspnea on exertion, therefore admitted prior to
his cardiac catheterization and ruled in for non-Q wave
myocardial infarction.  His catheterization at [**Hospital6 2911**] showed 50% left main, left main 80% left anterior
descending, 70% right coronary artery with an ejection
fraction of 20%.  The patient was in congestive heart failure
at the time.  He was started on Dobutamine with relief of
symptoms and was transferred to [**Hospital6 2018**] for coronary artery bypass grafting.  Catheterization
done at that time also showed an aortic valvular area of 0.8
cm squared.  He has a history of syncopal episodes.
Therefore his catheterization was to be repeated after
arrival at [**Hospital6 256**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for diabetes mellitus,
hypertension, cardiomyopathy, elevated lipids.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Significant for penile prosthesis and
L4-5 fusion.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Insulin 70/30 60 units b.i.d.;
Plavix 75 mg q.d.; Lisinopril 20 mg q.d.; Lipitor 10 mg q.d.;
Digoxin 0.25 mg q.d.; Metformin 1000 mg q.d.  On transfer his
medications included Dobutamine 2.5 mcg/kg/hour; heparin drip
at 900 units/hour; insulin 70/30 60 units b.i.d.; Plavix 75
mg q.d. and Digoxin 0.25 mg q.d. as well as Metformin 1000 mg
b.i.d.; Lasix 40 mg intravenously b.i.d.; Ativan 0.5 mg
t.i.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Retired fireman, lives with wife and has
three grown children and five grandchildren.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs, heartrate 109 sinus
rhythm, blood pressure 117/77, PA pressure is 33/26 with a
mean of 28.  Respiratory rate is 24 and oxygen saturation is
92% on room air, 96% with 2 liters of oxygen.  In general
this is a very pleasant man in no acute distress with no
chest pain at the present time.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat, anicteric, not injected, no jugulovenous distension,
no bruits, no lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular, tachycardiac,
normal rhythm, III/VI systolic ejection murmur.  Lungs,
distant breathsounds, clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended.  No
hepatosplenomegaly.  Extremities, no edema.  No clubbing or
cyanosis.  Pulses, carotids 2+ on the left and 3+ on the
right, radial 1+ on the left and 2+ on the right, femoral 2+
on the left and 3+ on the right, dorsalis pedis 1+
bilaterally, posterior tibial not palpable.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count was 8, hematocrit
39, platelets 200,000.  Sodium 135, potassium 3.9, chloride
96, carbon dioxide 25, BUN 21, creatinine 0.8, glucose 286,
PT 14.5, PTT 119.2, INR 1.4.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was brought to the Cardiac
Catheterization Laboratory following his admission to [**Hospital6 1760**].  At that time an
intra-aortic balloon pump was placed.  The Cardiothoracic
Service was consulted.  The patient was accepted for coronary
artery bypass grafting +/- aortic valve replacement.  On
[**12-13**], the patient was brought to the Operating Room and
at that time he underwent coronary artery bypass grafting
times two as well as an aortic valve replacement, please see
the operation report in full details and summary.  The
patient had coronary artery bypass grafting times two with
the left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending and a saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal
1 as well as an aortic valve replacement with a #23 Mosaic
valve.  The patient tolerated the operation well and was
transferred from the Operating Room to the Cardiothoracic
Intensive Care Unit.  At the time of transfer, the patient
had Dobutamine at 5 mcg/kg/min.  In the postoperative period
the patient was noted to have frequent premature ventricular
contractions and for that reason he was weaned from his
Dobutamine and started on Milrinone.  He was also started on
Amiodarone drip at that time.  The patient remained
hemodynamically stable and his intra-aortic balloon pump was
weaned and ultimately discontinued on postoperative day #1.
On postoperative day #2, the patient remained hemodynamically
stable.  His sedation was discontinued and he was weaned from
the ventilator and successfully extubated.  At that time his
creatinine was noted to have increased from 0.8
preoperatively to 1.9 on postoperative day #2 to 2.6 on
postoperative day #2.  The Renal Service was consulted at
that time, and it was felt that the patient was suffering
from acute renal failure from acute tubular necrosis.  It was
also noted that the patient had a distended and tympanitic
abdomen with right upper quadrant discomfort.  At that time a
right upper quadrant ultrasound was done and the General
Surgery Service was consulted.  After consultation it was
felt that the patient had an ileus.  An nasogastric tube was
placed and his abdomen was decompressed without further
complications.  The right upper quadrant ultrasound done at
that time showed sludge in the gallbladder.  Over the next
several days the patient remained hemodynamically stable.  He
was kept in the Intensive Care Unit to allow the resolution
of his acute renal failure as well as his ileus.  By
postoperative day #7 his ileus had resolved and his
nasogastric tube was removed.  His acute renal failure was
stabilized with a creatinine maintaining a steady 2.3.  On
postoperative day #8 it was felt that the patient was stable
and ready for transfer to Far-2 for continuing postoperative
care and cardiac rehabilitation.  Once on the floor, the
patient was seen daily by physical therapy.  With the
assistance of physical therapist and the nursing staff the
patient's activity level was gradually increased.  However,
it was noted over the several day period, that the patient
was persistently hypertensive with a rise in his creatinine
related to that hypertension.  The patient's beta blockers
were discontinued as was his Amiodarone and his diuretics.
The Foley catheter was placed.  The patient was noted to have
urinary retention and with the discontinuation of the
above-noted cardiac medications, the patient's systolic blood
pressure improved from the 80s into the 100 to 110 range.
Over the next several days, the patient's creatinine was
noted to fall from a high of 3.1 to 2.5 range.  Following
consultation with the patient's cardiologist, it was decided
to start him again on a low dose beta blocker as well as
Digoxin and a small dose of Lasix.  The patient tolerated all
of these additions well and on postoperative day #20 it was
decided that the patient was stable and ready for discharge
to a rehabilitation facility for continuing postoperative
care and rehabilitation.  At the time of transfer, the
patient's condition was stable.

His discharge physical examination showed vital signs of
temperature 97.4, heartrate 94, sinus rhythm, blood pressure
121/63, respiratory rate 20, oxygen saturation 96% on room
air.  Weight preoperatively was 96 kg and at discharge was
102.9 kg.  Laboratory data on [**2135-1-3**] showed white
count 12.3, hematocrit 30.8 and platelets 356, sodium 136,
potassium 5.1, chloride 103, carbon dioxide 25, BUN 43,
creatinine 1.6, glucose 58.  Physical examination, he was
alert and oriented times three and moves all extremities,
follows commands.  Respiratory, breathsounds distant, clear
to auscultation bilaterally.  Cardiovascular, regular rate
and rhythm, S1 and S2, II/VI systolic ejection murmur.  The
sternum is stable, incision with Steri-Strips open to air,
clean and dry.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended
with normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities were warm and
well perfused with 2+ lower extremity edema bilaterally.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Aspirin 325 q.d.
2.  Colace 100 mg b.i.d.
3.  Prilosec 