Admission Date:  [**2166-10-20**]       Discharge Date:  [**2166-10-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2102-4-8**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Thoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 64 year old
female smoker with 1+ pack year smoking history, status post
median sternotomy with intrapericardial left pneumonectomy
and radical mediastinal lymph node dissection on [**2166-10-9**], for Stage IV, nonsmall cell lung carcinoma of the
left upper lobe who was recently discharged from the [**Hospital6 1760**] on [**2166-10-15**].  The
patient was readmitted complaining of anxiety and feeling
short of breath since being at home and described noting
chest pain in the inferior aspect of the rib cage bilaterally
which served as an intermittent pain and became pain that was
not tolerable even with pain medication at home.  At that
time, the patient denies having any fevers or chills but has
nausea without any vomiting.  Given this intense pain and
nonresolving nausea, the patient was unable to eat while
being at home.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Her past medical history as noted
above is significant for nonsmall cell carcinoma of the left
upper lobe, Stage T4 with involvement of the left laryngeal
nerve.  The patient was also noted to have a hiatal hernia
and a history of radiation esophagitis.  The patient also has
a medical history significant for hypertension and anxiety.

PA[**Last Name (STitle) 10200**]GICAL HISTORY:  Significant for median sternotomy and
intrapericardial left pneumonectomy with radical mediastinal
lymph node resection on [**10-9**] by Dr. [**Last Name (Prefixes) **] and
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 952**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  The patient's medication on
admission was Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d., Ativan 0.5 mg p.o.
b.i.d., Percocet 5/325 mg one to two tablets p.o. q. 4-6
hours prn pain, Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Levaquin 250 mg
p.o. q.d. times one week.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a busdriver.  She has a
smoking history of 40+ pack year and she quit several months
ago.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery disease and
myocardial infarction at age 60 for father and breast cancer
for mother.  Sister also has a breast cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission temperature was 100.4,
the patient was tachycardiac with a heartrate of 110.  Blood
pressure was 125/53, respiratory rate 20.  Oxygenating at 80%
on room air and 95% on 2 liters of nasal cannula.  The
patient was alert and oriented times three and not in
apparent distress at that time.  The patient's cardiac
examination was sinus tachycardiac with regular rate and
rhythm, S1 and S2, no murmurs appreciated.  The patient's
right lung fields were clear to auscultation.  There were no
breathsounds appreciated on the left side, as expected.  The
patient was slightly tender at the inferior aspects of the
ribs bilaterally, near the incision sites.  The abdomen was
with bowel sounds, soft, nontender, nondistended.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory values on admission revealed
white count of 10.4 with hematocrit of 25.4, platelets 373.
The differential on white count was 87% neutrophils, 4%
bands, 5% lymphocytes and 2% monocytes.  PT/PTT were 14.0 and
33.5 with an INR of 1.3.  Urinalysis was clear yellow with
specific gravity of 0.013, pH of 7.0, trace blood, otherwise
negative.  Sodium was 129 initially with chloride of 99,
repeat sodium was 133, potassium 0.7, chloride 94, carbon
dioxide 25, BUN 6, creatinine 0.7 and glucose of 119.

Chest x-ray done at the Emergency Department showed large
hydropneumothorax at the left lung fields with a fluid level
noted at the extreme apex.  There was some displacement of
the heart in the mediastinum to the right.  The right lung
appeared well inflated and structurally unremarkable with
minimal blunting of the costophrenic angle.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted under Dr.[**Name (NI) 1816**]
care in the Thoracic Surgery Service.  The patient was found
to have fever on hospital day #2 with a temperature maximum
of 102.2.  Blood cultures were sent.  The patient also
underwent a left chest thoracentesis on hospital day #2.  The
analysis of the left pleural fluid showed a white count of
3,444 cells/ml, 90% PMNs and 7% lymphocytes.  The gram stain
analysis of the pleural fluid again showed 1+ PMNs and no
microorganisms seen in the cultures of those pleural fluids.
Culture of the pleural fluid eventually grew back no aerobic
or anaerobic bacteria and no fungus.  On hospital day #2 the
patient also received packed red blood cell transfusions for
a hematocrit of 25.4 and symptoms of shortness of breath and
was found to have fevers with chills with a temperature of
103.1.  At the time a transfusion miss-match was suspected
and appropriate measures were taken.  The repeat test of the
transfused packed red blood cells and the patient's blood
sample showed no reaction against each other.  The patient
received Tylenol, intravenous Morphine and also was started
on intravenous Zosyn and Ampicillin empirically.  Later on
that night, the patient remained tachycardiac to a heartrate
of 130 to 140 and remained tachypneic with increasing oxygen
requirement of 4 to 6 liters/minute, nasal cannula to remain
saturated at 94%.  The patient was hypertensive as well with
a systolic blood pressure to 170.  At the time the patient
was very uncomfortable, anxious and agitated.  Stat chest
x-ray showed a worsening mediastinal shift to the right, away
from the left pneumonectomy site.  The patient also underwent
an urgent transthoracic echocardiogram to assess the status
of the right heart and that showed no obvious strains or
ischemic events to the right side of the heart.  Given the
concern for tension left hydropneumothorax, the patient was
emergently transferred to the Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit
for urgent left tube thoracotomy.  A left chest tube was
placed and was connected to a balanced system, draining at
approximately 2 liters of fluid.  At the time the patient
verbally reported feeling better and her vital signs,
heartrate, respiratory rate and oxygen saturations improved.

The patient remained in the Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit and
again was found to be tachycardiac to 101 with blood
pressures 95/62.  The patient underwent emergent thoracic
angiogram to rule out any aneurysms of the thoracic aorta
which was found to be negative.  The patient was started on
Neo-Synephrine to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 60 and
Cardiology Service was consulted.  Review of the
transthoracic echocardiogram showed a global hypokinesis with
an ejection fraction estimated at 25 to 30% with unknown
etiology.  The patient was initially start on Dopamine drip
in order to wean off of Neo-Synephrine but the patient
responded with tachycardia of greater than 120 beats/minute.
The patient was eventually started on Milrinone at a low dose
in addition to a Neo-Synephrine drip to maintain a mean
arterial pressure of greater than 90.  The patient was
gradually weaned off of Milrinone and Neo-Synephrine drips
and by hospital day #6 the patient was maintained on a blood
pressure of 114/56 without any Milrinone or Neo-Synephrine.
Because of her tachycardia, the patient was started on low
dose Lopressor and Captopril for her hypertension.  Therefore
on hospital day #6 the patient was transferred to the floor
from the Cardiac Surgery Recovery Unit.  While the patient
remained anxious as she had been throughout her admission and
often not able to sleep at night, the patient did well on the
floor.  While on the floor she was discontinued from Zosyn
and Ampicillin and was switched over to p.o. Levaquin, and
was discharged home on hospital day #8.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharged to home.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Status post left intrapericardial pneumonectomy and left
tension hydropneumothorax.
2.  Congestive heart failure
3.  Anxiety
4.  Hiatal hernia
5.  Hypertension

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Digoxin 125 mcg p.o. q.d.
3.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4.  Captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
5.  Levaquin 250 mg p.o. q. 24 for 8 days
6.  Ambien 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.
7.  Me