Admission Date:  [**2114-11-5**]     Discharge Date:  [**2114-11-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2049-2-1**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Doctor Last Name **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65-year-old
male with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
mitral valve replacement and atrial valve replacement with
mechanical valves, hypertension, atrial fibrillation who was
admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit on [**11-5**]
for right lateral lower lobe pneumonia complicated by
hypotension.  He complained of cough with green sputum times
three weeks and received amoxicillin from [**10-19**] to
[**10-29**], prescribed by his primary care physician without
improvement, but did complain of occasional chest discomfort,
loose bowel movements, and occasional shortness of breath.

On [**11-5**] he noted hemoptysis, fevers, chills, and
rigors.  At the Emergency Room of [**Hospital1 190**] he was found to have bilateral lower lobe
pneumonia, was tachypneic with rates of 22 to 26 respirations
per minute, and required supplemental oxygen via nasal
cannula.  He suffered from systolic hypotension in the 90s
and was fluid resuscitated with 3 liters of normal saline and
required dopamine.  Dopamine was discontinued because of
resulting tachycardia and he was changed to Neo-Synephrine
via peripheral IV.  Pneumonia was treated with levofloxacin
in the Emergency Room and changed to ceftriaxone plus
azithromycin.  A femoral line was placed due to increased
INR, and 2 units of fresh frozen plasma were administered.
He showed some evidence of mild prerenal azotemia which was
treated with volume resuscitation. The patient then became
normotensive and again was noted to be in atrial
fibrillation.

At this point, on [**11-7**], the patient was transferred to
the General Medicine Service.  There, he was noted to feel
improved but still suffered from cough and mild hemoptysis.
He also noted chest discomfort while coughing along with mild
shortness of breath.  He was not diaphoretic.  He showed no
peripheral edema.  No resting chest pain was noted.  Prior to
transfer to the General Medicine Service his right femoral
central line was pulled without complications.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Atrial valve and mitral replacements with mechanical
valves.
4.  Atrial fibrillation, status post conversion, on
amiodarone.
5.  Status post cholecystectomy with appendectomy.
6.  Status post bilateral total knee replacement.
7.  Question of melanoma.
8.  History of pneumonia five years ago.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications on admission include
Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d., Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
enalapril 20 mg p.o. b.i.d., Coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.a.m. and
5 mg p.o. q.p.m., Prilosec 40 mg p.o. q.d., beclomethasone
nasal spray, Atrovent 2 puffs q.i.d., Flovent 110 2 puffs
b.i.d., [**Doctor First Name **] 60 mg p.o. b.i.d., amiodarone 200 mg p.o.
q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives in [**Location 8391**].  He is
married and has seven children.  He is a former construction
worker.  He smoked one pack of cigarettes per day for 15
years but quit in the middle [**2082**].  He reports that he does
not drink but has drank in the past.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on the General Medicine Service revealed temperature maximum
and temperature current 99.1, pulse 86 irregular (running
from the 60s to the 80s), blood pressure 123/49 (running from
103 to 120 systolic over 39 to 72 diastolic), respiratory
rate at 21.  He was satting 98% on 2 liters; in 5961, out
3290.  In general, the patient was an obese older male in
mild distress who was diaphoretic, spoke in full sentences,
and no visible rashes.  Head, ears, nose, eyes and throat
revealed the patient's pupils were equal, round, and reactive
to light.  Extraocular movements were intact.  Mucosa were
moist.  The oropharynx was clear.  There was no sinus
tenderness.  Cardiovascular revealed his heart rate was
irregularly irregular.  First heart sound and second heart
sound were punctuated by a mechanical click.  No murmurs,
rubs or gallops.  Lungs were notable for wheezes throughout,
bibasilar rales reaching one-quarter up the lung fields, left
greater than right.  Abdomen examination revealed the patient
was obese, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds
with noted scars.  Extremities were warm with 2+ peripheral
edema bilaterally.  No rash.  Right groin was without
hematoma.  Neurologic examination was grossly intact.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories on admission
to the General Medicine Service included a white blood cell
count of 23.8, hematocrit of 27.3, mean cell volume of 80,
platelet count of 194.  The white blood cell differential was
92% polys, 0 bands, 5% lymphocytes, 1.6% monocytes,
0.5% eosinophils, 0.2% basophils.  Chemistries included a
sodium of 139, potassium of 4.7, chloride of 106, bicarbonate
of 25, blood urea nitrogen of 33, creatinine of 1.4, glucose
of 89.  Urinalysis was benign.  ALT of 40, AST of 29, albumin
of 3.1, alkaline phosphatase 115, amylase 61, total bilirubin
of 0.7, magnesium of 2.3.  Urinary Legionella antigen was
negative.  Sputum culture was colonized with  oropharyngeal
flora.  Urine culture was negative.  Blood cultures had no
growth.  Arterial blood gas was notable for a pH of 7.38, a
PCO2 of 39, PAO2 of 48, bicarbonate of 24, and a base excess
of -1.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Chest x-ray showed bilateral bibasilar
consolidations, left greater than right, with evidence of
small pleural effusions.  No change between the chest x-ray
of [**11-6**] and [**11-5**]; consistent with congestive
heart failure with dependent pulmonary edema versus
aspiration pneumonia.

ASSESSMENT:  This is a 65-year-old male with a history of
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, atrial
valve and mitral replacements, presenting with hypotension
and bibasilar pneumonia, as well as evidence of mild
congestive heart failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit and after initial improvement was
transferred to the Medicine Service.  His course by problem
includes:

1.  PNEUMONIA:  The patient presented with bibasilar
consolidations consistent with bibasilar pneumonia.  The
patient initially presented with an elevated white blood cell
count, but by [**11-8**] the patient's white blood cell
count had dropped to 11,000.  He reported symptomatic
improvement over the course of his stay and was able to walk
freely on the medical floor without shortness of breath or
desaturation by the day of discharge.  The patient's fevers
improved over the course of his admission, and the patient
was running low-grade fevers by the day of discharge
including a temperature of 99.9 on the day prior to
discharge.

Repeat chest x-rays revealed improving consolidations over
the course of the patient's admission.  Upon admission to the
Medicine Service the patient was treated on
levofloxacin 500 mg q.d., and ceftriaxone and azithromycin
were discontinued.  The patient responded well to aggressive
daily chest physical therapy as well.

The patient was to proceed with a 14-day course of
levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. and was to follow up with his
primary care physician on [**Name9 (PRE) 2974**], [**11-23**].


2.  ATRIAL FIBRILLATION:  After admission to the general
Medicine Service the patient was hemodynamically stable
throughout his stay.  He was maintained on a reduced dose of
Lopressor at 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. and a full dose of
amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.   He was in atrial fibrillation
throughout his stay.  The patient was maintained on a regimen
of Coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.d. during his stay, and his INR
remained therapeutic.  On discharge, the patient's INR
was 2.5.

3.  ANEMIA:  The patient appeared to have a longstanding
borderline microcytic anemia.  His last normal hematocrit was
on [**2114-2-16**].  The anemia shows a borderline increased
RDW.  Evaluation was begun during this admission including a
workup for iron deficiency anemia with total iron binding
capacity, iron, and reticulocyte counts pendin