Admission Date:  [**2121-2-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2121-3-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2071-7-4**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 49-year-old gentlemen
with a history of end stage renal disease on hemodialysis,
hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia who had a four to five
day history of shortness of breath and chest pressure and
eventually presented to an outside hospital on [**2121-2-19**].  He received hemodialysis earlier that same day and was
noted to be hypotensive after Dialysis with systolic blood
pressures in the 70s.  His symptoms did not resolved with
rest and he presented to the Emergency Room at an outside
hospital with hypotension, congestive heart failure, elevated
troponin and electrocardiogram changes. He was then
transferred to the [**Hospital6 256**]
Emergency Room for further evaluation.

Initially he was on dopamine, aspirin, Lovenox, nitroglycerin
and was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit.  Patient was
initially restarted on BiPAP and Lasix with improved
respiratory symptoms.  However, the day following, the
patient experienced cardiac arrest and was coded for 40
minutes with recovery complicated by cardiogenic shock.

During hospitalization he was noted to have a new murmur and
was evaluated for possible endocarditis.  Patient was
intubated during his cardiac arrest for cardiogenic shock and
was noted to have a white blood cell count of 18.4,
congestive heart failure on chest x-ray and ischemic
electrocardiogram changes.  He was initially started on
vancomycin and levofloxacin.  Patient was also started on
CVVH for further fluid removal with concern for his
hypotension.  Eventually patient had his levofloxacin changes
to gentamicin and had an echocardiogram which showed severely
depressed ejection fraction and severe aortic stenosis.
Patient at times converted into atrial fibrillation and was
shocked successfully and then had a PEA arrest and then was
successfully resuscitated from that.

Patient then went to the cardiac catheterization and had
normal coronaries.  Valvuloplasty was attempted without
success and then was repeated with some success.  Patient had
noted a background of a several months history of purpuric
rash.  Biopsy was consistent with leukocytoclastic vasculitis
per Dermatology.  The patient was admitted in his early
hospital was being managed for hypotension cardiogenic shock,
aortic stenosis with presumed endocarditis, pulmonary edema
and congestive heart failure exacerbation, end stage renal
disease on hemodialysis and leukocytoclastic vasculitis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  End stage renal disease on hemodialysis, etiology
unknown.  He has been on hemodialysis for the past year.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Herniated L4-L5 disc with history of cauda >........<.
Surgical repair times three.
4.  Aortic stenosis.
5.  Osteomyelitis of the left lower extremity.  Has
previously been on multiple antibiotics with skin graft.
6.  Remote intravenous drug use in history and positive
hepatitis C.
7.  Hypercholesterolemia.
8.  Peripheral vascular disease status post left below the
knee amputation.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Atenolol.
2.  Lovastatin.
3.  Protonix.
4.  Reglan.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with his wife.  Occasional
alcohol.  Previous half pack per day smoking history and
remote intravenous drug use history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 96.  Heart
rate 120s and sinus.  Blood pressure 90/40 on 15 mcg/kg of
dopamine.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Normal.
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Mucous membranes
moist.  Could not assess jugular venous distention.
Respiratory exam showed diffuse bilateral crackles
throughout.  Musculoskeletal:  Normal chest wall.
Cardiovascular:  Regular, normal S1, S2, [**3-1**] right upper
sternal border murmur and a [**3-1**] holosystolic murmur at the
apex.  Normal carotid bruits.  Abdomen was soft, nontender,
nondistended with positive bowel sounds.  Extremities:  Left
below the knee amputation, 2+ pulses and positive edema of
the lower extremity.  Neurological exam:  Patient was
oriented with normal mood and affect.  Skin:  Positive
petechia on the abdomen, legs, and thighs.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 8.0,
hematocrit 32.2, platelet count 243,000.  INR 1.0.  Sodium
139, potassium 4.1, chloride 99, bicarbonate 28, BUN 29,
creatinine 9.5, glucose 139.  Troponin T of 0.09.  CK of 31.

Chest x-ray showed positive congestive heart failure,
moderate to severe with severe pulmonary edema bilaterally.
Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at 126, 78 degree axis,
QRS of 112, delayed R wave progression, inferior ST
depressions about 1 mm in V4 through V6, T wave inversions in
aVL.

Echocardiogram preliminary, normal ejection fraction, could
not assess valves and no pericardial effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 49-year-old gentlemen with
peripheral vascular disease, end stage renal disease on
hemodialysis, aortic stenosis, hypertension,
hypercholesterolemia, status post left below the knee
amputation, who was transferred from an outside hospital with
hypotension, congestive heart failure and increased troponins
with electrocardiogram changes.

1.  Cardiogenic shock:  Patient came in hypotensive and
>.........<component of sepsis.  Patient had negative blood
cultures, but did have concern for endocarditis.  Patient was
initially on dopamine and was transitioned to Levophed
regimen.  Patient had a PEA arrest that was described above
and was intubated for shock.  Patient had a prolonged
intubation and eventually required tracheostomy for
respiratory status and for further suctioning.

Patient did well on the trachea collar and was eventually
transitioned to a smaller trachea size so he could tolerate
talking.  Patient continues to require b.i.d. suctioning for
his respiratory status, which was exacerbated from diffuse
pulmonary edema in light of congestive heart failure
exacerbation on admission.  Patient's respiratory status
improved with CVVAT hemodialysis, and eventually resumed to
his regular hemodialysis regimen.  He remained stable on
Levophed and this was eventually weaned off as patient was
continued on CVVH but as he was transitioned to regular
hemodialysis, required some blood pressure support with
Levophed, but overall his blood pressure remained stable
throughout the course of his stay and was started on
anti-hypertensives by the end of his admission.

2.  Hypotension:  There was also concern for sepsis.  Patient
had multiple blood cultures drawn with no growth, but was
treated empirically for endocarditis in light of his worsened
murmur and patient was started on vancomycin and levofloxacin
initially and eventually changed to vancomycin and
gentamicin, and then Flagyl was started empirically but then
continued because patient continued to remain febrile
throughout the course of his stay, and he had a positive
>.......< blood culture.  Other than that his blood cultures
remained negative throughout the course of his stay.
Patient's blood pressure improved on antibiotics.

3.  Aortic stenosis:  Patient was treated for a presumed
endocarditis for a total of six weeks with vancomycin,
gentamicin, and Flagyl.  Patient will complete this course on
[**4-3**].  Patient was followed by the Infectious Disease
Service to help tailor antibiotics.  Patient initially
underwent valvuloplasty which was unsuccessful on the first
attempt, but was able to have some success on the second
attempt.  During this intervention, patient also had a look
at his coronary arteries, which were clean on cardiac
catheterization.  Even though patient was initially brought
in for question of ischemic changes and borderline troponin,
patient's troponin was negative and his CKs were negative
here and it is unlikely that patient had an ischemic event.

4.  Decreased ejection fraction:  Patient was noted after
admission and after arrest to have a decreased ejection
fraction to 30%.  Patient's fluid status was managed by
hemodialysis.  Once his blood pressures were stable, patient
continued to have fluid removed during Dialysis and his fluid
balance was otherwise stable while on hemodialysis.