Admission Date:  [**2187-12-18**]     Discharge Date:  [**2187-12-24**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is an 83-year-old female
with a history of coronary artery disease status post MI and
CABG in [**2186**], hypertension, hyperlipidemia, who was
transferred from an outside hospital after she was found to
have markedly elevated cardiac enzymes consistent with a
non-ST segment elevation MI.  EKG showed ST depressions in
the lateral leads.

According to the patient, she was in her usual state of
health until two days prior to admission at which time she
had onset of severe diaphoresis.  There were no chest pains,
but she does report palpitations and increasing dyspnea on
exertion.  She also notes that she has had increasing
orthopnea over the last several weeks.  Patient denies
nausea, vomiting, or worsening lower extremity edema.  She
notes that she has been fatigued also lately.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction
in [**2186**] and subsequent CABG x4 at [**Hospital6 **] in
[**2186**].
2. Hypertension.
3. Hyperlipidemia.
4. Status post left carotid endarterectomy in [**2187-7-17**].
5. History of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
6. History of a pancreatic cyst and left renal cyst.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4. Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d.
5. Multivitamin q.d.
6. Celebrex.
7. Potassium chloride.
8. Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a 20 pack year smoking
history, but she quit after her CABG.  The patient recently
resumed smoking half a pack per day for the past month.  The
patient denies alcohol use.  She lives alone.  She is widowed
with two children.

PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:  Afebrile with a blood pressure
of 145/50 and a heart rate of 79.  She was satting 99% on 3
liters of O2 by nasal cannula.  Physical exam is notable for
a flat jugular venous pressure.  Her heart is regular, rate,
and rhythm with a 3/6 systolic murmur heard at the left
sternal border radiating to the apex and the axilla.  There
are crackles at the left lung base, but is otherwise clear to
auscultation.  Abdominal exam is benign.  There is no lower
extremity edema.  She is alert and oriented times three.

LABORATORIES:  Are notable for a white count of 11.5 and a
hematocrit of 34.0.  Her creatinine is 1.5.  Cardiac enzymes
are elevated.

EKG shows sinus rhythm at a rate of 72 with a Q wave in lead
III and downsloping ST depressions in leads I, aVL, and V4
through V6.  She has a T-wave inversion in lead II.  These
findings are new since her previous EKG performed in [**2184-1-17**].

CT performed at the outside hospital shows no evidence of
aortic dissection.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular:  The patient was transferred from an
outside hospital with a non-ST segment elevation MI.  She
ruled in by elevated cardiac enzymes.  She was initially
admitted to the [**Hospital Unit Name 196**] service.  The patient had not received
Lasix for three days prior to admission and again her Lasix
dose was held on the day of admission.

The patient was taken to cardiac catheterization and in the
holding area she was found to be hypertensive with a blood
pressure of 200/100.  In addition due to her elevated
creatinine of 1.5 on admission, the patient had been started
on IV fluid for prehydration prior to cardiac
catheterization.  In the holding area, the patient was found
to be in flash pulmonary edema.

An EKG was obtained, which showed no changes from the
previous EKG performed prior to the event.  The patient was
started on a nitroglycerin and nitroprusside drip with good
resolution of her symptoms as her blood pressure decreased.
She was also given Lasix 200 mg IV to which she diuresed
well.  The patient was transferred to the CCU for further
monitoring.

The patient was eventually able to be weaned off her face
mask down to 3 liters nasal cannula.  She was monitored
overnight in the CCU with good blood pressure control as she
was transitioned from nitroglycerin and nitroprusside drip to
metoprolol and captopril p.o.  The patient was taken to
cardiac catheterization the following day.  The patient was
found to have severe three vessel disease in the native
coronary arteries.  Vein graft angio revealed a patent SVG to
OM graft supplying the distal left circumflex.  She was noted
to have severe diastolic dysfunction as well as right renal
artery stenosis.  The patient underwent successful stenting
of the distal LMCA/proximal RA with a Cypher stent.

The patient was placed on Integrilin and Plavix and sent back
to the CCU for further monitoring.  The patient had no
further episodes of shortness of breath or chest pain.  PT
consult was obtained prior to discharge, and she was found to
have very good functional status.  The patient will be
discharged on aspirin, Plavix, Lipitor, atenolol, and
lisinopril.  An echocardiogram was performed prior to
discharge.  She was noted to have an ejection fraction of
greater than 55%.  There was mild symmetric left ventricular
hypertrophy with normal cavity size.  Regional left
ventricular wall motion was normal.  There was mild aortic
valve stenosis as well as moderate mitral regurgitation.  The
left atrium was mildly dilated.  There was also mild
pulmonary artery systolic hypertension.

2. Gastrointestinal:  The day following cardiac
catheterization, the patient was found to have a bloody bowel
movement.  In the early morning hours of [**12-21**], she
passed dark maroon colored stools and also possibly melena. A
GI consult was obtained and there was a prolapsed internal
hemorrhoid that was mildly excoriated, but not thrombosed
found on physical exam.  Her hematocrit dropped from a
precath level of 35.2 down to 27.1 on the morning of the
bleed.  The patient was resuscitated with IV fluids as well
as 2 units of packed red blood cells.

An upper endoscopy was performed, which showed a small hiatal
hernia, Schatzki's ring, blood in the stomach, but an
otherwise normal EGD.  GI consult felt that her stools were
most likely due to a lower GI bleed.  They recommended
following her hematocrit.  There was no indication for urgent
colonoscopy.  Patient's hematocrit was followed throughout
the remainder of the hospitalization and it remained stable.
She had another brownish bowel movement with streaks of blood
prior to discharge.  The patient stated, however, that this
is her normal bowel movement and she normally has streaks of
blood due to her internal hemorrhoids.  GI recommended
following up for a colonoscopy in [**4-22**] months following
discharge.  The patient remained hemodynamically stable
during the GI bleed event on [**12-21**] and throughout the
remainder of her hospitalization.

3. Pulmonary:  On the morning of cardiac catheterization, the
patient was found to have to be in flash pulmonary edema.
Cardiac enzymes and EKGs were followed, but there was no
evidence to suggest a re-infarction as the cause of her flash
pulmonary edema.  The cause of the pulmonary edema was most
likely severe diastolic dysfunction with an elevated blood
pressure of 200/100 as well as the holding of her Lasix dose
for the four days prior to cardiac catheterization.  The
patient was initially hypoxic to 80% on room air.  Patient
was placed on face mask and given a Lasix dose of 200 mg IV
with good diuresis.  Her O2 saturations quickly improved to
the high 90s on face mask and she was eventually able to be
weaned off down to nasal cannula.  The patient had no further
episodes of pulmonary edema, and she was restarted on a dose
of Lasix of 20 mg p.o. q.d. prior to hospital discharge.
Patient was found to have good ambulating O2 saturations also
prior to discharge.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable, ambulating without
assistance, breathing on room air, chest pain free with no
evidence of orthostasis.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Patient is discharged to home without any
services.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction status post
stent of the distal left main coronary artery/proximal RI.
2. Diastolic dysfunction.
3. Flash pulmonary e