Admission Date:  [**2198-2-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2198-2-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2147-6-23**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 50-year-old
male with a history of dilated nonischemic cardiomyopathy
with an EF of 15, complete heart block status post VVI pacer,
status post gastric bypass, several episodes of acute tubular
necrosis in the past, presents to an outside hospital with
five days of nausea, vomiting, watery diarrhea three times
per day - no blood and no black.  Wife had been sick with
diarrhea previously.

No recent travel and no PND or orthopnea.  No increased lower
extremity edema, chest pain or shortness of breath.  Wife
notes that the patient has been very fatigued as of late, two
days ago, as well as extremely confused.  His wife, who is [**Name8 (MD) **]
RN, noticed a systolic blood pressure to be in the 70's to
80's, but he normally has a baseline of 90.  He continues to
take his diuretics and his ACE inhibitor while he was not
taking any PO and having massive diarrhea.  He called EMS,
went to the outside hospital, was found to be in acute renal
failure, acidotic, hyperkalemic, elevated INR, and sent to
the [**Hospital1 69**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Dilated nonischemic cardiomyopathy
with an EF of less than 15%, complete heart block status post
DDD pacer in [**2184**], replaced in [**2195**], neuropathic pain,
/ventral hernia, atrial fibrillation with left bundle branch
block, and status post gastric bypass, trach postoperatively,
ventral hernia repair, hospital course complicated by acute
renal failure and trach and a baseline creatinine of 1.1.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Coumadin 5, Enalapril 10 b.i.d.,
carvedilol 12.5 b.i.d., Zantac 150 b.i.d., vitamin B12, Lasix
120 b.i.d., aspirin 325, Ativan 0.5 PO b.i.d., Neurontin 300
mg PO b.i.d..

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Remote tobacco.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On initial exam, the patient was alert
and oriented.  HEENT was anicteric.  Extraocular muscles were
dry.  Neck: No JVD.  Supple.  Distant S1, S2.  Lungs: Clear
to auscultation anteriorly.  Abdomen: Positive bowel sounds,
obese.  Extremities: No edema, but scabbed excoriations.
Neuro: Alert and oriented times three and conversant.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1. Renal.  Patient admitted in acute renal
failure notable for a BUN of 210 and creatinine 9.9.  He also
had elevated K with peaked T waves anteriorly.  He was given
emergent hemodialysis for three hours and was given
aggressive IV fluid hydration and his urine output started to
pick up to peaks of 400 cc an hour.  He received Swan-Ganz
catheter monitoring with wedges that were around 15-18.  On
the third day of his admission, the Swan was discharged and
he was continued to be aggressively rehydrated until his
urine output came to more reasonable levels where he was able
to keep up with his PO intake.  His acute renal failure
resolved with only the one episode of hemodialysis, as did
most of his hyperkalemia.

2. Cardiac.  The patient had an EF of 15%.  His initial wedge
was 22 and he was monitored closely during this
resuscitation.  He never went into failure.  Rhythm, his AV
is sequentially paced.  He had peaked Ts on first EKG which
were then resolved.

3. Hematology.  Patient had low hematocrit after his
rehydration and was transfused two units.  He was also given
vitamin K to reverse his INR of 14. His INR did reverse on
its own and was felt likely secondary to decreased PO intake.
His Coumadin, as of this dictation, was still on hold.

4. GI.  Patient with diarrhea which had resolved for the
first two days and then came back.  Stool studies were sent
and the results are pending, as of the time of this
dictation.

5. ID.  Patient was evaluated by ID for septic numbers on the
Swan.  Patient had low SVR and a high cardiac output.  It was
felt there was no infectious source, although he did have a
low grade fever.  The patient was given one dose of Levaquin
for a presumed UTI, which then the culture had no growth and
was discontinued.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  The same as on admission.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Good.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  Home.


                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 420**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 421**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 422**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6834**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2198-2-24**]  14:21
T:  [**2198-2-26**]  07:35
JOB#:  [**Job Number 93314**]
