Admission Date:  [**2155-5-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2155-5-24**]


Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 84-year-old woman
with a past medical history significant for COPD, with recent
admission for COPD/pneumonia/question lung carcinoma, now
admitted with increasing shortness of breath for the last
several days.

After discharge in [**2155-3-30**], the patient was doing fairly
well.  Then, about five days prior to this admission, she was
called by her PCP to discontinue Hydrochlorothiazide due to
hypokalemia.  At this time, she noted decreased urination
since discontinuation of the Hydrochlorothiazide.  Then,
about four days ago, she noted onset of cough, productive of
white sputum.  She denied fevers or chills, she also denied
hemoptysis.  She notes that over the ensuing four days, she
was increasingly short of breath when supine, but this was
relieved with sitting up.  She also noted worsening lower
extremity edema over this time period.  She denies any chest
pain, nausea or vomiting, diaphoresis, palpitations, calf or
leg pain, or calf redness.  When symptoms continued to
progress, her nurse became concerned and called 911.  In the
field she received nebs without improvement.  She was then
given 80 mg IV of Lasix with diuresis and subsequent
improvement in oxygenation and dyspnea.  She diuresed over
two liters in the Emergency Room with further improvement.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, COPD,
hypercholesterolemia, status post TAH, status post resection
of benign esophageal tumors, status post euthyroid goiter,
GERD.

MEDICATIONS:  Outpatient medications, Albuterol 2 puffs qid,
Beclomethasone 2 puffs intranasally tid, Ipratropium bromide
2 puffs qid, Lasix 20 mg po q d, Lipitor 10 mg po q d,
Micro-K 10 mEq 2 caps q d, Premarin intravaginally 1-2 times
per week, Prilosec 20 mg po q d, Serevent 2 puffs [**Hospital1 **],
Triamcinolone 8 puffs [**Hospital1 **], Verapamil SR 240 mg po bid.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone.  She denies any
alcohol.  She is a former smoker, having quit 30 years ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 95.9, heart rate 111,
blood pressure 138/71, respiratory rate of 24, 96% on 6
liters of nasal cannula.  In general the patient is in mild
respiratory distress but is otherwise comfortable.  She is a
thin, elderly woman.  Sclera are anicteric.  The pupils are
reactive.  The oral mucosa is moist without oral lesions.
The neck is supple, with JVP about 10 cm.  There is no
lymphadenopathy.  The lungs are coarse throughout, with
bilateral crackles, right greater than left.  There is
diffuse mild to moderate wheezing.  The heart is tachycardic
but regular, S1 and S2 without murmurs, rubs or gallops.  The
abdomen is soft, nontender, non distended.  There is no
hepatosplenomegaly.  There are no masses.  There are
normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities show bilateral lower
extremity edema, left greater than right.  There are no
cords, and [**Last Name (un) 5813**] sign is negative.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission CBC showed white count of
17.9, hematocrit 40.7, platelet count 510,000.  Coag showed
PT of 12.8, PTT 26.3, INR 1.1.  Chem 7 showed sodium 141,
potassium 4.1, chloride 98, CO2 33, glucose 135.  CK 86,
troponin less than 0.3.  Admission chest x-ray shows
extensive air space opacity of mid and lower lung zones on
the right, seen on previous chest x-rays.  There is a
relatively rapid increase over the last three weeks
suggesting superimposition of an acute process.  Next, EKG
shows normal sinus rhythm, 111 beats per minute, normal
intervals, axis 52 degrees, left atrial abnormality.  There
are no new ST changes compared with prior EKG from [**2155-4-8**].

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the medicine
service for evaluation and treatment of her multifactorial
respiratory distress.  She was treated simultaneously for
CHF, COPD and likely pneumonia, possibly post obstructive.
On the morning after admission, the patient went into acute
respiratory distress with a respiratory rate in the high 30's
and increased work of breathing.  While ABG was not
significantly abnormal, her work of breathing was increased,
and her symptoms did not initially respond to IV Lasix, nebs,
IV Solu-Medrol or Nitro Paste.  She was then transferred to
MICU for trial of C-PAP on which she gradually improved.  She
was transferred out of the MICU on [**5-22**] and has made
progressive improvement in respiratory symptoms and
oxygenation requirement.

To review:
1.  CHF:  The patient's initial history and physical was most
consistent with CHF, and she responded to initial diuresis to
80 mg IV Lasix on the field.  Echocardiogram performed on
[**5-21**] showed possibly severe LV diastolic dysfunction, with
preserved systolic  function.  After initial aggressive
diuresis, her diuretic regimen was changed to 40 mg po bid in
order to avoid compromising her preload too significantly.
She was also continued on her calcium channel blocker in
light of her diastolic dysfunction.

2.  COPD:  While this admission was not felt to be secondary
to an acute COPD flare, the patient does have marked baseline
obstructive pulmonary disease.  She was treated with nebs and
parenteral steroids and MDI with Prednisone taper.

3.  Pneumonia:  The patient was noted on previous admission
to have a suspicious right lung opacity concerning for
possible carcinoma.  Work-up at that time was equivocal, and
was felt that further work-up was not indicated as the
patient would not proceed to surgery or chemotherapy anyway.
On this admission chest x-ray did show a right lower lobe
opacity suspicious for pneumonia, and she was treated with
Levo and Flagyl, again for suspicion that this process might
be post obstructive.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Discharged to rehab.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Fair.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Congestive heart failure with diastolic dysfunction.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
3.  Pneumonia.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Hypercholesterolemia.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Albuterol 2 puffs qid, Beclomethasone
2 puffs intranasally tid, Ipratropium bromide 2 puffs qid,
Lasix 40 mg po bid, Lipitor 10 mg po q d, Micro-K 20 mEq q d,
Premarin intravaginally 1-2 times per week, Prilosec 20 mg po
q d, Serevent 2 puffs [**Hospital1 **], Triamcinolone 8 puffs [**Hospital1 **],
Verapamil SR 240 mg po bid, Levofloxacin 250 mg po q d times
7 more days, Flagyl 500 mg po tid times 7 more days,
Prednisone taper as follows:  50 mg po q d times two days,
then 40 mg po q d times two days, then 30 mg po q d times two
days, then 20 mg po q d times two days, then 10 mg po q d
times two days, then 5 mg po q d times two days.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
1.  Follow-up potassium every day for the first five days to
assess serum potassium levels while the patient begins her
new Lasix regimen.  Adjust standing potassium order as
needed.
2.  Follow I's and O's to assess the efficacy of her CHF
regimen.
3.  Please have patient seen by physical therapy.




                          [**Name6 (MD) 251**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1114**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5046**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 19919**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2155-8-4**]  06:32
T:  [**2155-8-6**]  20:58
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
