Admission Date:  [**2141-2-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2141-3-9**]

Date of Birth:   [**2079-11-12**]       Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61-year-old
male who was an unrestrained driver versus a snow bank in a
head-on collision.  He was found with his head outside the
passenger door with a GCS of 4 at the scene.  He was
transported to [**Hospital6 5016**] and intubated on route.

Work-up at the outside hospital included a CT of the head
showing a likely subarachnoid hemorrhage with multiple skull
fractures.  Chest x-ray confirmed possible right pulmonary
contusion and possible C2 fracture.

He was therefore transferred for further management to [**Doctor First Name **]

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease status post
myocardial infarction.  He had a percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty with stent in [**2138**].  History of
hypertension.  Hyperlipidemia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Lipitor, Lisinopril,
Atenolol.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty with stent.  Right ankle surgery with no
implants.  Possible history of cholecystectomy.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On arrival, his
temperature was 97.1??????, heart rate 89, blood pressure
176/palp.  General:  He was intubated on assist control with
an oxygen saturation of 100% FIO2.  He was sedated and
paralyzed.  HEENT:  Exam showed a depressed right temporal
skull fracture with bilateral hemotympanum.  He had a left
nostril bleed.  Midface was stable.  He had no malocclusions.
Trachea was midline.  Chest:  Clear with breath sounds
bilaterally but coarse.  Back:  No step-off.  No deformities.
Cardiovascular:  Regular, rate and rhythm.  Normal S1 and S2.
Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  Emergency Room fast
exam was negative.  Rectal:  Guaiac normal with loose tone,
as he was paralyzed on presentation.  Extremities:  No
evidence of deformities.  Pelvis:  Stable.  Neurological:  He
was A3T and intubated.

LABORATORY DATA:  On presentation white count was 16.1,
hematocrit 42.8, platelet count 191; bicarb 25, BUN and
creatinine 18 and 0.9, fibrinogen 225; PT and INR of 13.3 and
1.2, PTT 22.1; amylase 62, admission lactated 1.7; blood gas
on presentation was 7.32, bicarb 25, pCO2 46, pAO2 246, base
deficit of -2.

Electrocardiogram showed him to be in sinus rhythm with no
acute changes.  There was no evidence of acute ischemia.

Toxicology screens were negative, including blood, serum and
urine; urinalysis was unremarkable.

Chest x-ray was done initially and repeated on presentation
which showed a right pulmonary contusion, no pneumothorax, no
effusion.  There was no evidence of rib fracture by Abdominal
plain film.  Pelvis showed negative film.

CT of the head was repeated showed a longitudinal fracture of
the skull base through the anterior mastoid cell complex and
ear canal running partially to the petrous bone.  There was a
nondepressed right parietal skull fracture.  There was a left
frontotemporal subarachnoid bleed, a left parietal
subarachnoid bleed near the vermix.  He had sphenoid and
ethmoid sinus fluid which was indicative of likely blood.  He
had a fracture to his foramen lacerum.

CT of the cervical spine showed comminuted fracture of the
base of the odontoid showing a likely type III odontoid
fracture.  There was no cord impingement.

CT angiogram of the chest showed right upper lung zone
contusion but no evidence of arterial venous injury.  CT of
the abdomen and pelvis showed no acute process, no free air,
no free fluid, no large parenchymal injury.

The patient did receive lower extremity noninvasive exams as
surveillance on [**2141-3-3**], which were read as negative
with no evidence of DVT.  He never did receive a filter for
DVT prophylaxis.  He had never developed any clinical
evidence of DVT, and he was discontinued on subcue Heparin
and Venodyne boots for prophylaxis.

On presentation he had a GCS 3T here to [**Hospital6 649**].  He was sent to the Trauma Intensive Care
Unit where Neurosurgical consultation was obtained.  The
patient was kept sedated.  Propofol and Nipride drip was
utilized to maintain blood pressure in the 140s systolic with
keeping his mean arterial pressures around 90 with a CPB goal
of approximately 25 and less once he was to get an IVP
monitor.  An arterial line was placed, and he received
Vancomycin and Clindamycin for meningitis prophylaxis.

As he was transported to the Intensive Care Unit, his vital
signs were 98.1??????, with a heart rate of 67, and a blood
pressure of 137/68, breathing at a rate of 20, at 100%.
Neurologically he actually had moved all four extremities.
He was making at least 500 in urine after 600 cc in urine
after his resuscitation and being transported intubated.  His
pupils were equal, [**3-26**] bilaterally and reactive.  His chest
was clear to auscultation and coarse.  Heart was now regular.
His abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended.  Although the
patient was sedated, he did move somewhat.  Lab values were
unchanged.

A neurosurgical consult on the day of admission recommended
q.1 hour neurochecks and to lighten his Propofol for sedation
to evaluate for his responsiveness.  They also recommended
continuation with his arterial line and blood pressure
monitoring.  They did agree with the Nipride drip to keep the
systolic pressures less than 140.  They wanted to recheck his
coags and make sure that they were within normal limits,
keeping his INR at less than 1.3 at all times.  They
recommended continuing to repeat head CT in approximately 6-8
hours, and certainly to follow-up exam in 24 hours.  He
should keep a hard cervical collar on at all times.
Ultimately the plan was to place a halo brace, but he had to
be stabilized prior to this being done.

Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1022**], chief resident on Neurosurgery, and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 46629**],
the attending on Neurosurgery, were aware and had seen the
patient's films.  They also recommended antibiotic coverage
for his pneumocephalus to provide prophylaxis, given his high
risk for meningitis development.

By neurologic exam, the patient was shown to have positive
gag and positive localization of bilateral upper extremities
to painful stimuli.  He did have spontaneous movement of
bilateral upper extremities and just the left lower
extremity, and he began to move his right lower extremity
after only deep sternal rub but continued to kick bilateral
legs periodically.  He had positive cornual reflexes.

Repeat CT of the had at 10:30 that evening on the day of
admission showed no progression of injury.  He was thereafter
just supported.  By day two, he continued on Vancomycin and
Clindamycin and was on a Propofol drip for sedation.  He
spiked a temperature to 102.4?????? with a heart rate of 70, and
blood pressure was 130/70.  He was breathing at 100% on a
vent with an IMV of 650 x 12, breathing spontaneously with an
FIO2 of 40%.  His arterial blood gas were actually quite
balanced. His bicarb was 22.  His Dilantin level was 6.7, as
he had been loaded and received prophylaxis empirically
during his first day of admission.

Repeat CT of the head was obtained at approximately 11 a.m.
again showing no progression or change.  He had a cervical
spine film and TLS films that were completed.  A four-vessel
angiogram was done by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 46629**] that was ultimately
negative.

Neurological:  The patient continued to improve over several
days until approximately 11 days after admission when he was
actually awaking and arousing and was off sedation and just
getting p.r.n. Morphine and Ativan.  He was able to move his
extremities purposely, opening his eyes to stimuli.  He
actually started mouthing words by his last Intensive Care
Unit day.

Ultimately a halo was placed after approximately a one-week
stay in the Neurology Intensive Care Unit.  The halo was
fixed, and then he was actually extubated over a Cook
catheter given his somewhat tenuous airway in the setting of
having a halo placed.

Pulmonary:  His extubation went uneventfully, and he was
easily we