Admission Date:  [**2178-7-9**]       Discharge Date:  [**2178-7-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2106-1-8**]       Sex:  M

Service:  VASCULAR

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Left foot gangrene.  The information was
obtained from hospital records and the daughter.  The patient
is Portugese speaking.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 72-year-old Portugese
speaking male with a history of left foot ulceration and
cellulitis.  Cultures have grown out MRSA and Morganella
which was treated without changes.  Noninvasive studies
demonstrated severe femoral-tibial disease and left forefoot
flow deficit.  Right ABI was 0.4, resting, and left ABI was
not measured.

The patient was evaluated at [**Hospital6 **] from [**2178-5-12**], to [**2178-6-7**], by Vascular Surgery, and felt that the
patient was not a viable candidate for revascularization, and
the patient's daughter referred the patient to Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **],
who was seen in the office on the day of admission.  He is
now admitted for intravenous antibiotics, open TMA, then with
potential bypassing graft depending on wound response.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Daily Insulin dependent.  Atrial
fibrillation.  Sick sinus syndrome.  Hypercholesterolemia.
History of alcohol abuse.  History of congestive heart
failure.  History of dehydration with orthostasis.  History
of mild chronic renal insufficiency, 3.5-2.0.  Chronic
anemia.  Negative upper GI on barium enema.  Hematocrit was
24, transferrin 17, total IBC 206, ferratin 4.5.  Obstructive
sleep apnea, blood gases on room air of 7.48, 42, 93, 97%.
T12 compression fracture.  Left foot infection of MRSA
Morganella morganii which was sensitive to Gentamicin,
Bactrim, Unasyn, Ceftriaxone, Ceftazidime, ................,
and Cipro, and ................  Gallstones by ultrasound,
asymptomatic.  Cataract, left eye.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Pacemaker on [**2176-7-7**], VVI mode.
Echocardiogram in [**2175**] showed normal left ventricular
function, trivial aortic stenosis.  Echocardiogram on [**2178-6-7**] showed normal left ventricular function, dilated
hypertrophy left ventricle, right ventricle dilated, right
atrium, dilated, left atrium dilated, aortic stenosis without
significant changes from previous echocardiogram.  O.S.
laser.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Atenolol 25 mg q.d., Avandia 4 mg
b.i.d., .................. 2.5 mg q.Thursday, Potassium
Chloride 20 mEq q.d., Ativan 4 mg b.i.d., Protonix 40 mg
bedtime, Spironolactone 50 mg t.i.d., Flomax 0.4 mg h.s.,
Lasix 80 mg q.a.m. and 40 mg q.p.m., Neurontin 100 mg t.i.d.,
................... 5 mg t.i.d., Nephrocaps 1 daily,
Simethicone 80 mg t.i.d., Insulin 75/25 20 U q.a.m.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is retired, barely inactive.  He is a
non-smoker.  He drinks 3-4 glasses of wine; he previously
drank 1 gallon per day.  He has not any alcohol over the last
two months.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive for difficulty in hearing.
Ankle edema.  Hip claudication bilaterally with no rest pain.
No history of stroke or myocardial infarction.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vitals signs:  Afebrile, pulse rate
72, blood pressure 120/60 in the right arm, 116/60 sitting,
118/60 lying.  General:  The patient was a drowsy, obese,
Portugese speaking male.  HEENT:  Unremarkable.  Tongue was
midline but fissured.  Pulses:  Carotids were palpable
without bruits.  Brachial and radial pulses were palpable
bilaterally.  Abdominal aorta was non-prominent.  Femoral
pulses were palpable bilaterally.  No bruits.  Absent
popliteal, dorsalis pedis, and posterior tibial spot
palpation bilaterally.  Chest:  Diminished base sounds
bilaterally with crackles two-thirds up on the right side.
Heart:  Irregularly, regular rhythm with diminished S1 and
S2.  There were no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Pacemaker
battery implant in the pectoral area on the right.  Abdomen:
Distended and dull to percussion.  Bowel sounds were
diminished.  Could not assess for organomegaly or masses.
There were no bruits.  Extremities:  Right hand was deformed
with 3+ edema.  The right and lower extremities from knee to
foot were with 3+ edema with severe chronic edematous
changes, cellulitis, and bullous lesions, and venous
insufficiency skin changes.  The left foot was with dry
gangrene of the hallux and first toe.  The drainage was
without odor.  There was erythema present in the first toe
joint; capsule was exposed.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission labs included a white count of
8.0, hematocrit 29.9, platelet count 411,000; BUN 34,
creatinine 1.5, potassium 3.3, supplemented and rechecked at
3.5; PT and INR were normal.

Chest x-ray showed single lead, pacemaker in the right
ventricle with moderate cardiomegaly.  There were no
infiltrates or effusion.  There was a 6 mm left upper lobe
nodule.

Electrocardiogram was paced rhythm.
HOSPITAL COURSE:  KUB done on admission showed probable
ascites, and large loops of small bowel, air in the
descending colon.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was continued on his
preadmission medications.  He was begun on intravenous
antibiotics of Vancomycin and Bactrim.  Right IJ was placed
on the day of admission secondary to lack of peripheral
venous access.  Chest x-ray was negative for pneumothorax.
The patient underwent a right first metatarsal amputation on
[**2178-7-9**], without complication and was transferred to
the Recovery Room.

He remained stable.  Chest x-ray showed line in appropriate
placement.  The patient was in congestive heart failure.
Cardiology was requested to the see the patient and help with
management of his congestive heart failure.  Recommendations
to continue with beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, and Lasix as
needed.  [**Last Name (un) **] was consulted to manage the patient's
diabetes.

Other recommendations made included avoiding Avandia because
of fluid retention and non-steroidals because of diminished
renal function and fluid retention, and to monitor I&Os and
daily weights, consider Demadex if weight increases or
congestive heart failure symptoms increase, and hold
Spironolactone.

On postoperative day #1 there were overnight events.
Postoperative hematocrit was 23.8.  BUN and creatinine
remained stable.  Lasix was continued.  They felt that the
low hematocrit was secondary to volume overload.  The patient
underwent an arteriogram on [**7-13**] which demonstrated
patent aorta, the renals were patent.  There was bilateral
plaque disease in the iliacs, and commons were satisfactory.
Left external iliac had no gradient, and common femoral and
bilateral femorals were satisfactory.  There was minimal SFA
disease.  The short segment of the AK-BK popliteal which was
occluded.  There was diseased BK popliteal with patent tibial
.................. trunk.  The PT, peroneal and AT all
occluded at the origin.  The PT and peroneal were with
moderate diffuse disease.  The BT reconstructed at the ankle
and perfused arch.  The AT reconstructed at the ankle and
perfused to DP.

An attempt was made on [**2178-7-17**], to recannulate the
popliteal occlusion without success.  The patient's volume
status margin was very narrow, and he continued to have
intermittent episodes exacerbation of congestive heart
failure requiring continual adjustment in his medications.
He received a unit of packed cells on [**2178-7-14**], for his
continuing anemia.  His posttransfusion hematocrit was 25.9,
up from 24.3.  The patient was continued to be diuresed.
Physical Therapy began to work with the patient with
non-weightbearing ambulation.  Recommendations were to
consider anticoagulation for chronic atrial fibrillation and
maintain an INR of [**1-10**].

On [**7-18**], the patient was transferred to the SICU for
sepsis observation secondary to increasing ischemia of the
left extremity and postoperative fevers, agitation, and
hypotension, and decreased SVR, with increased cardiac
output.  A white count at the time of transfer was 9.0, with
a hematocrit of 25.4, BUN 19, creatinine 1.5, potassium 4.1,
calcium 1.14, phosphorus 3.6, magnesium 2.2.  Cultures of the
foot were obtained on admission which grew  .................
Bacterium, gram-negative rods, anaerobes,
..................., ..................., and
................