Admission Date:                   Discharge Date:  [**2119-10-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2084-5-18**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Vascular

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Abdominal and back pain times three days.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 38-year-old
male with known abdominal aortic aneurysm who was offered a
repair but refused even in light of the fact that there is a
positive family history.  The patient has noted increased
abdominal pain over the last several weeks but really bad
over the last three days, which radiates to the back.  He
does admit to some nausea and vomiting but no fever or
chills.  The pain is consistent and has become progressive.
The patient is now evaluated in the Emergency Room and
admitted to the vascular service, ICU, for continued care.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, abdominal aortic
aneurysm of 5.6 cm, Jehovah's witness.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  Include Lopressor, Lisinopril, doses not
remarked.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was initially evaluated in the
Emergency Room.  Routine labs were obtained.  His admitting
hematocrit was 46.7, white count 9.7, BUN 18, creatinine 1.1,
potassium 4.5, coags were normal.  LFTs were negative.  He
was begun on an Esmolol drip and Nipride to control his blood
pressure.  He was given Zofran for nausea and Ativan for
anxiety.  He was transferred to the SICU for continued
monitoring and care.

Emergent abdominal CT was obtained which showed an infrarenal
abdominal aortic aneurysm with no thrombus.  It extended to
the bifurcation, the left common iliac was 1.6 cm, right
common iliac artery was 1.4 cm, left common femoral artery
was 1.3 cm, the right common femoral was 1.3 cm.  An
echocardiogram was obtained which showed an ejection fraction
of 50-55%.  Mibi done in [**5-9**] wave changes, no
angina.  Overnight the back pain subsided and there was no
abdominal pain.  Blood pressure was under control with
Nipride and Labetalol drips, with systolic of 110 to 130 and
diastolic 70-80.  Heart rates were in the 60's.  Abdominal
exam was unremarkable.  Femoral pulses were palpable.  The
patient is aware of a need for urgent repair but awaits
family prior to undergoing surgery and he will accept Cell
[**Doctor Last Name **] blood and accept blood and blood products only if life
threatening emergency.  Patient's blood pressure remained
under control and the patient was taken to surgery on [**2119-10-12**]
and he underwent a repair of abdominal aorta with a 16 mm
tube Dacron graft.  He tolerated the procedure well and was
transferred to the ICU for continued monitoring and care.  He
was followed by cardiology during this intensive care stay.
He had routine EKGs and enzymes drawn postoperatively.  His
postoperative hematocrit was 21.8, down from 31.2.  He was
transfused.  He was placed on a PCA for analgesic control. He
returned to the OR for re-exploration for bleeding.  There
was no active source of bleeding.  The patient returned to
the ICU for continued care.  His hematocrit stabilized at
34.3, BUN and creatinine remained stable.  Coags were normal.
 Postoperative day #1 at about 3 in the morning, the resident
was called to the patient's bedside for systolic hypertension
with a systolic blood pressure of 166 and a mean arterial
pressure of 118, CCB was 13 to 14, O2 sats were 96% on three
liters.  They felt that the increase in the hypertension was
secondary to fluid mobilization and he was given Lasix and
diuresed with excellent response.  His hematocrit remained
stable at 36.2.  His chest x-ray showed a low lung volume of
mild failure.  Over the next 24 hours the patient required
Labetalol added to his regimen for antihypertensive control
and additional dose of Lasix.  His hematocrit remained stable
at 33.1, BUN 13, creatinine 0.8.  NG remained in place and he
remained in the ICU.  By postoperative day #4 the patient was
weaned off his Nitroglycerin and his blood pressure was under
control.  Hematocrit remained stable.  He continued to remain
NPO.  Nasogastric tube was removed and the patient was
transferred to the VICU for continued monitoring and care.

Postoperative day #6 the patient passed flatus but he
remained npo.  Social service followed the patient for family
and patient support.  Sips were started on postoperative day
#7 and advanced to clears on postoperative day #8.  By
postoperative day #8 the patient was tolerating





                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  2914

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1479**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2119-10-20**]  21:15
T:  [**2119-10-20**]  21:17
JOB#:  [**Job Number 43055**]
