Admission Date:  [**2132-12-10**]       Discharge Date:  [**2132-12-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2064-1-19**]       Sex:  F

Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

ADDENDUM:  Since the prior dictation the following events
summarize her hospital course through the time of discharge.

1.  Renal:  The patient's BUN and creatinine continued to
rise with subsequent worsening symptoms of uremia including
diffuse pruritus, nausea, vomiting, confusion and
tremulousness with asterixics on examination.  On [**2132-12-22**] the
patient's BUN and creatinine peaked at 127 and 7.9
respectively.  The patient was still anuric putting out fewer
then 20 cc of urine daily.  It was then that the renal
consultants felt that dialysis was indicted both for overt
uremia as well as volume overload.  She had a temporary right
femoral Quinton catheter placed and was initiated on
hemodialysis that day.  She was dialyzed four times with
removal of approximately 2 to 3 kilograms per run of
hemodialysis.  Her uremic symptoms improved rapidly as did
her volume overload with significant decrease in her ascitics
and lower extremity edema.  Her electrolytes were managed
appropriately including a short course of Amphojel for
hyperphosphatemia.  Prior to discharge there was still little
to no recovery of her renal function.  A more permanent
tunneled catheter was placed in the right subclavian vein by
interventional radiology and the right femoral catheter was
discontinued.  The patient will continue to have outpatient
hemodialysis with nephrology consults still hopeful for
recovery of renal function.  She is discharged on Nephrocaps
one cap po q day and Phos-Lo one tab po t.i.d. with meals to
be adjusted as needed by outpatient nephrology.

2.  Cardiovascular:  Initially there were plans to perform
cardiac catheterization following stenting of the iliacs.  It
was determined, however, as stated in the previous dictation
that iliac stenting was unnecessary, however, the dye load
from that study led to the acute renal failure described
above precluding any further cardiac catheterization.  Among
discussions with the patient it is still unclear whether or
not she would plan to go ahead with cardiac catheterization
in the future.  If her kidneys do respond and recovery to a
point that she could tolerate the dye load it could be done
some time in the future in a number of weeks.  If, however,
her kidneys continue to fail and she continues on
hemodialysis and it is deemed necessary that she undergo
catheterization sooner, she could do that as well.  Per Dr.[**Name (NI) 44319**] conversation with the patient it sounds as though
she would not go ahead with catheterization in the future
anyway given that her myocardial infarction is completed
unless she were to develop any new symptoms.  Since coming
from the Intensive Care Unit she has been on a stable medical
regimen for her cardiovascular disease including aspirin,
beta blocker, hydralazine, nitrites, statin and sublingual
nitroglycerin prn, which she has not required.  She has been
completely pain free with good blood pressure and heart rate
control.  See discharge medications below for the list of her
cardiac regimen.

3.  Gastrointestinal:  Since coming from the Intensive Care
Unit following her gastrointestinal bleed her hematocrit had
remained stable.  There was no further episodes of bleeding.
She was continued on Protonix 40 mg b.i.d.

4.  Hematology:  Following the initiation of hemodialysis the
patient's platelets were noted to fall from 160 on [**2132-12-19**] to
a nadir of 87 on [**2132-12-25**].  Concern was raised for heparin
induced thrombocytopenia as the patient was receiving heparin
through her dialysis catheter.  HIT antibodies were sent, but
are still pending at the time of this dictation.  No further
heparin was used in the dialysis catheter and the patient's
platelets have stabilized in the low 100s at the time of
discharge.  The day prior to discharge following the
patient's Perm-A-Cath placement she had some oozing from the
site of the Perm-Cath.  Coags were checked at that time,
which revealed a PTT of 150 and INR of 1.5 in the setting of
no anticoagulants.  These laboratories were checked four
hours later and coags were all within normal limits leading
to the possibility that perhaps the wrong patient's blood had
been tested or that the patient had inadvertently received a
dose of heparin.  Nonetheless bleeding was controlled from
the catheter site with pressure for a couple of minutes and
no further issues were encountered.

5.  Pulmonary:  The patient was continued on her outpatient
inhalers including Albuterol, Atrovent and Advair discus.
She was stable on that regimen without any acute
exacerbations.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Metoprolol 100 mg po b.i.d., enteric
coated aspirin 81 mg po q day, Hydralazine 50 mg po q.i.d.,
Lipitor 20 mg po q day, Imdur 30 mg po q.d., Nitroglycerin
sublingual 0.3 mg prn, Albuterol one to two puffs q 6 hours,
Advair discus 500/50 micrograms b.i.d., Atrovent two puffs
q.i.d., Protonix 40 mg po b.i.d., insulin NPH 24 units with
breakfast and 12 units with dinner.  Regular insulin 8 units
with breakfast and 4 units with dinner.  Insulin sliding
scale.  Nephrocaps one cap po q day, Phos-Lo one tab po
t.i.d. with meals.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post myocardial
infarction.
2.  Acute renal failure secondary to dye nephropathy on top
of chronic renal insufficiency.
3.  Gastrointestinal bleed while on heparin and Integrilin.
4.  Type 2 diabetes.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Congestive heart failure.
7.  High cholesterol.
8.  Asthma.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient is discharged to rehab with
instructions to follow up with her primary care physician and
cardiologist upon discharge from the rehab center.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4786**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 26904**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2132-12-26**]  12:17
T:  [**2132-12-26**]  12:24
JOB#:  [**Job Number 44320**]
