Admission Date:  [**2195-7-8**]       Discharge Date:  [**2195-7-11**]


Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 88-year-old
female with a past medical history of cerebrovascular
accident, hypertension, bilateral hip fracture, status post
deep venous thrombosis in [**2194-11-2**], nursing home
resident who presents after the onset of chest pain which
began at 2 a.m. on the morning of admission at her nursing
home.

It was not associated with any shortness of breath or
diaphoresis.  She was transferred to [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital
where electrocardiogram showed elevated ST waves in leads I,
aVL, and V2 to V4 with reciprocal depressions in leads II,
III, and aVF; which was consistent with an anterior
ST-elevation myocardial infarction.  There, she was started
on heparin, Integrilin 4.5-mL bolus then 8 mL per hour,
nitroglycerin drip, morphine sulfate for pain, and aspirin
162 mg.

She was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
this morning for cardiac catheterization.  During the
catheterization she had an episode of ventricular
fibrillation arrest and was shocked once with 200 joules
which converted her back to a normal sinus rhythm.  They
started a lidocaine bolus and drip.  There was no further
ectopy.

The catheterization showed coronary artery disease with
proximal totally occlusion of the left anterior descending
artery at first septal and small first diagonal.  An initial
large clot was removed proximally with the Angio-Jet.  A
small distal clot was treated with percutaneous coronary
intervention and stent.  A proximal stent was deployed,
resulting in wide patent left anterior descending artery with
TIMI-III flow.  She received Lasix 20 mg intravenously while
it he Catheterization Laboratory.

While being transported to the Coronary Care Unit, the
patient had an episode of coffee-grounds emesis.  Therefore,
the Integrilin was discontinued on arrival to the floor.

Also of note, the patient developed a right groin hematoma
with catheterization.  After arrival to the floor, she had
some oozing from the catheterization site.  Interventional
fellow removed the arterial sheath, and the venous sheath
remained in place in case the patient needed temporary pacing
through temporary pacing wire.  The patient was chest pain
free.  She denied shortness of breath, palpitations, leg
pain, or back pain.  She does not recall the events of that
morning.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Cerebrovascular accident 10 years ago.
2.  Right femoral fracture in [**2194-10-3**].
3.  Left femoral fracture in [**2194-10-3**].
4.  Status post deep venous thrombosis in [**2194-11-2**]
after a hip surgery.
5.  Right shoulder surgery.
6.  Anemia.
7.  Hypertension.
8.  No history of coronary artery disease, myocardial
infarction, diabetes, or high cholesterol.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (The patient was on)
 1.  Celexa 30 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Abilify 5 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Vitamin B12 250 mg intramuscularly every month.
 4.  Lasix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Zyprexa 2.5 mg by mouth q.h.s.
 6.  .....................
 7.  Metoprolol 50 mg by mouth twice per day.
 8.  Latanoprost.
 9.  Tylenol as needed.
10.  Senna as needed.

ALLERGIES:  DARVOCET, PERCOCET, and DARVON.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient was wheelchair bound at
baseline.  Her one son died three years ago.  Unknown tobacco
history.  Social alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Denies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Examination on
admission revealed temperature 94.5, heart rate was 59, blood
pressure was 97/44, respiratory rate was 16, and oxygen
saturation was 97% on room air.  Pulmonary artery, systolic,
and diastolic were 53/26.  Pulmonary artery pressure mean was
39.  Cardiac output was 3.2.  Cardiac index was 1.89.  On
general examination, she was a thin, frail, elderly woman
lying flat.  Disoriented to person and place.  In no apparent
distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
revealed she was normocephalic.  Her tongue was engorged.
She had a purple hematoma on her tongue making speech
difficult.  Her pupils were pinpoint and reactive.  Her oral
mucosa were moist.  Her neck was supple.  No masses or
lymphadenopathy.  She had jugular venous pulsation to 8 cm.
Carotid pulses were 2+.  No carotid bruits auscultated.  Lung
examination revealed scattered crackles heard throughout
anterolaterally.  Poor inspiratory effort.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  Normal first
heart sounds and second heart sounds.  No murmurs, rubs, or
gallops.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.
Bowel sounds were present.  No hepatic enlargement.
Genitourinary revealed a Foley catheter was in place draining
yellow urine.  Groin examination revealed the right groin
with a hematoma.  Femoral sheath was in place.  Extremity
examination revealed 1+ bilateral edema and 1+ dorsalis pedis
pulses.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratories
of significance from admission revealed white blood cell
count was 12.6, hemoglobin was 13, hematocrit was 37.3, and
platelets were 218.  Of note, on her complete blood count,
her blood urea nitrogen was 33 and her creatinine was 1.4
(which was elevated from her baseline of 1.1).  Her creatine
kinase level at [**Hospital3 1280**] Hospital were 46 and troponin was
less than 0.4.  Her creatine kinase level at 7:55 a.m. was
428 and troponin was 0.58.  At 10:45 a.m., her creatine
kinase peaked at 6417.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Her catheterization on [**7-8**]
showed a right-dominant system with an occluded proximal left
anterior descending artery with total occlusion at first
septal and small first diagonal.  There was an initial large
clot removed proximally with the Angio-Jet which resulted in
small distal embolus.  This was treated with percutaneous
coronary intervention and stent.  A proximal stent was then
deployed which resulted in widely patent left anterior
descending artery with TIMI-III flow.  No blush.  The right
heart catheterization revealed severely depressed cardiac
index, severely increased right and left filling pressures,
and severe pulmonary hypertension.  Left ventriculography was
not performed.

The echocardiogram from [**2195-7-8**] revealed an ejection
fraction of 25%, a moderately dilated left atrium, and left
ventricular cavity size was normal.  Overall, left
ventricular ejection fraction and systolic function were
severely depressed.  Resting wall motion abnormalities
included anterior, anterolateral, septal, and apical
akinesis.  There was no apical thrombus but could not
definitively exclude.  Right ventricular chamber size was
normal.  Ascending aorta was moderately dilated.  Aortic
valve leaflets were mildly thickened.  Aortic regurgitation
of 1+.  Mitral valve leaflets were mildly thickened.  Mitral
regurgitation of 1 to 2+.  Tricuspid regurgitation of 3+.
Moderate pulmonary artery systolic hypertension.  Significant
pulmonic regurgitation.  Trivial pericardial effusion.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   The patient was admitted
to the Coronary Care Unit after her cardiac catheterization.
Review of hospital course by system as follows.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  (a)  Coronary artery disease:
The patient was continued on aspirin, nitroglycerin drip, and
Integrilin status post catheterization.  The Integrilin was
discontinued at 2 a.m. after the episode of hematemesis.  The
patient received a Plavix load after her catheterization, and
she was continued on Plavix once per day.  She was started on
Lipitor during her hospital course, but this was discontinued
on [**7-10**].

Her cardiac enzymes were followed throughout her stay.  Her
creatine kinase level peaked at 6417, and they trended down
from there.  Cardiac enzymes were not checked on the morning
of [**7-11**].

(b)  Pump:  She had severe decreased ejection fraction.  She
was started on a heparin drip while we were waiting to
discuss whether or not the family wanted to start Coumadin on
her.  The heparin was discontinued on [**7-10**], as the family
did not want to begin long-term anticoagulation.

(c)  Rhythm:  The patient was in a sinus rhythm status post
catheterization.  Her electrocar