Admission Date:  [**2190-10-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2190-11-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2126-6-28**]       Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 63 year-old man
with a past medical history of severe chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, smokes two to three packs per day times
thirty years, also with a history of coronary artery disease
status post myocardial infarction in [**2181**].  The patient was
referred to [**Hospital1 69**] from [**Hospital **]
Medical Associates following cardiac catheterization, which
was done as a preoperative workup prior to cataract surgery.
The catheterization showed an EF of 34% with apical posterior
hypokinesis with left dominant system with 50% left main
lesion, 99% circumflex lesion, 80% D2 lesion and 80% right
coronary artery lesion referred for coronary artery bypass
graft.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, diabetes mellitus,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery
disease, depression, diabetic retinopathy, gout, hemorrhoids,
rosacea and hypercholesterolemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Significant for a tonsillectomy.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Avandia 4 mg b.i.d., Doxycycline
100 mg q.d., Zestril 20 mg q.d., [**Last Name (un) **]-Dur 400 mg b.i.d., NPH
insulin 46 units in the morning and 10 in the evening,
regular insulin 7 units in the morning, Aerobid two puffs
q.d., Atrovent two puffs q.i.d., Albuterol two puffs q.i.d.,
Prednisone one drop in each eye, ________ one drop q.i.d. to
the left eye and Ocuflox one drop b.i.d. to the left eye.

PREOPERATIVE LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 8.7,
hematocrit 42, platelets 302, PT 13, PTT 28, INR 1.9, sodium
141, potassium 3.5, chloride 106, CO2 22, BUN 16, creatinine
0.4, glucose 170.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General, the patient is in no acute
distress.  Lungs are clear.  Cardiovascular regular rate and
rhythm.  No murmur.  Neck is supple.  Neurological alert and
oriented times three.  Moves all extremities.

The patient was transferred on [**11-1**].  He was brought
to the Operating Room.  Please see the Operating Room report
for full details.  In summary, the patient underwent coronary
artery bypass grafting times four with a left internal
mammary coronary artery to the left anterior descending
coronary artery, saphenous vein graft to the LPL and obtuse
marginal three sequentially and saphenous vein graft to D1.
He tolerated the operation well and was transferred from the
Operating Room to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.  At
the time of transfer the patient was on Milrinone at 0.5
micrograms per kilogram per minute and Levophed at 0.05 mcs
per kilogram per minute.  The patient did well in the
immediate postoperative period.  He was weaned from his
Milrinone as well as his Levophed.  His anesthesia was
reversed.  He was weaned from the ventilator and successfully
extubated.  The patient did remain in the Intensive Care Unit
on postoperative day one, because of slight respiratory
acidosis and hypercarbia.  He received vigorous pulmonary
toilet and was transferred from the Cardiothoracic Intensive
Care Unit to the floor on postoperative day two.  However,
the patient did decompensate somewhat on the floor and was
transferred back to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit
late in the day of postoperative day two.  At that time he
had marginal blood gases with a pH of 7.33 and a PCO2 of 60.
The patient remained in the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care
Unit for another two days receiving aggressive pulmonary
toilet as well as aggressive diuresis.

On postoperative day four he was again transferred to the
floor.  During that time while he was in the Cardiothoracic
Intensive Care Unit he was seen by both the [**Hospital **] [**Hospital 982**]
Clinic and by the Electrophysiology Service.  The
Electrophisiology Service followed this patient, because
preoperatively he had a fourteen beat run of supraventricular
tachycardia versus ventricular tachycardia and he required
stratification for an AICD.  Once transferred to the floor
over the next several days the patient continued to make slow
progress with the assistance of the nursing staff and
physical therapy.  His activity level was increased.  After
discussion with the family and with the patient's attending
cardiologies a decision was made to do wrist stratification
for AICD placement prior to discharge and on [**11-9**] the
patient was brought to the Electrophysiology Catheterization
Laboratory where he underwent EP testing and AICD placement.
Please see catheterization laboratory report for full
details.  In summary the patient had an ICD duel chamber
catheter placed.  He tolerated the procedure well and was
returned to the floor for continuing postoperative care.

On postoperative day nine it was decided that the patient was
stable and ready for transfer to a rehabilitation facility
for continuing pulmonary care and postoperative care.  At the
time of transfer the patient's condition is as follows,
physical examination, vital signs temperature 97.7, heart
rate 95 sinus rhythm, blood pressure 110/64, respiratory rate
18, O2 sat 95% on 2 liters nasal prongs.  Weight
preoperatively is 90.9 kilograms, at discharge is 82
kilograms.  Laboratory data, white blood cell count 13.6,
hematocrit 32.6, platelets 725, sodium 135, potassium 5.1,
chloride 96, CO2 31, BUN 22, creatinine 0.7, glucose 147.
Physical examination, neurological alert and oriented times
three, moving all extremities, follows commands.  Respiratory
scattered rhonchi throughout.  Expiratory wheezes.
Cardiovascular regular rate and rhythm.  S1 and S2.  Sternum
is stable.  Incision with Steri-Strips open to air clean and
dry.  Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended with
normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities are warm and well
perfuse with no edema.  Left saphenous vein graft harvest
site with Steri-Strips open to air clean and dry.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Lisinopril 2.5 mg q.d., Doxycycline
100 mg q.d., Prilosec 40 mg q.d., Rosiglitazone 4 mg b.i.d.,
Combivent two to four puffs q 4 hours, Albuterol nebulizers q
2 hours prn, Flovent four puffs b.i.d., enteric coated
aspirin 325 mg q.d., Colace 100 mg b.i.d., Lasix 20 mg q.d.,
NPH insulin 38 units q.a.m. and 10 units q.p.m., regular
insulin sliding scale.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post coronary artery
bypass grafting times four with a left internal mammary
coronary artery to the left anterior descending coronary
artery, saphenous vein graft to LPL and obtuse marginal three
sequentially and saphenous vein graft to D1.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Diabetes mellitus.
4.  Gout.
5.  Hypercholesterolemia.
6.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
7.  Tonsillectomy.
8.  Automatic implanted cardioverter defibrillator placement.

The patient is to be discharged to rehabilitation.  He is to
have follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in four weeks.  Follow up with
the [**Hospital 26418**] Clinic on [**11-17**] at 11:00 a.m.  Follow up with
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] in three to four weeks.






                            [**Doctor Last Name 412**] [**Last Name (Prefixes) 413**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 414**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 415**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2190-11-11**]  11:10
T:  [**2190-11-11**]  11:27
JOB#:  [**Job Number 41551**]
