Admission Date:  [**2167-5-19**]       Discharge Date:  [**2167-6-4**]

Date of Birth:   [**2095-6-11**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71-year-old man with
catheterization in [**2161**] showing a normal left main, left
anterior descending, 60% proximal in mid, diagonal 70%,
diagonal II 70%, intermediate 80%, left circumflex 80%,
proximal 70-80%, OM1 70%, right coronary artery 95%, LVEDP
16, RVEDP 10, pulmonary hypertension, CF 39%, and a
hypokinetic anterior lateral septal, apical, and posterior
walls.  The patient is also status post coronary artery
bypass grafting times four and a catheterization in [**2163**] with
left main 20%, left anterior descending 40%, proximal
diagonal 80%, left circumflex total ramus 80%, patent grafts,
and a PAECW of 18, pulmonary hypertension, and global
hypokinesis, with a 23% ejection fraction, and 1+ mitral
regurgitation.  The patient also has a history of congestive
heart failure, and atrial fibrillation, who presented for an
outpatient pulmonary treadmill test and complained of severe
chest pain across his chest, 8 out of 10, and numbness in his
distal fingertips bilaterally and inner feet in both legs.
He denied any nausea or vomiting, sweating or diaphoresis.
He did have a headache after his Nitroglycerin.

The patient has been chest pain free prior to admission.  The
treadmill test was stopped, and the patient was given
sublingual Nitroglycerin times two with relief of pain.  The
patient was brought to the [**Hospital6 2018**] Emergency Department for further evaluation.

In [**2161**] after coronary artery bypass grafting, the patient
suffered from an myocardial infarction and felt similar
symptoms as he experienced on the day of admission and also
before an admission in [**2167-2-15**] secondary to congestive
heart failure.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient denied headache, nausea,
vomiting, fevers, chills, palpitations, cough, abdominal
pain, and indigestion.  He also denied dysuria and melena.
He reported increase in left lower extremity and right lower
extremity swelling and also gastroesophageal reflux disease.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease.  Obesity.
Congestive heart failure.  Atrial fibrillation.  Asthma.
Hypertension.  Pulmonary hypertension.  Coronary artery
bypass grafting times four with catheterization as listed
above.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  L2 and L3 diskectomy.

ALLERGIES:  CODEINE CAUSES THE PATIENT TO "GO CRAZY."
MORPHINE ALSO CAUSE THE PATIENT TO "GO CRAZY."

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient quit smoking 40 years ago.  She
had a 25 pack-year history.  She uses occasional alcohol.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  98.8??????, pulse 88,
respirations 18, blood pressure 128/60, 96% on 4 L.  HEENT:
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements intact.  Moist mucous membranes.  Neck:  No jugular
venous distention.  Chest:  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Occasional wheezes.  No crackles.
Cardiovascular:  Irregularly, irregular.  There was a +1 S2.
No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Extremities:  There was 1+ non-pitting edema
on the left and no edema on the right lower extremity.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Zaroxolyn 5 mg twice a week Monday
and Friday, Verapamil 50 a.m., 60 noon, 40 h.s., Vasotec 5
b.i.d., Coumadin 5 q.o.d., 2.5 q.o.d., Imdur 30 q.d., Lipitor
10 q.d., Lasix 40 q.d., Serevent 2 puffs b.i.d., Flovent 2
puffs b.i.d., Proventil p.r.n., Xanax 0.25 p.r.n., Centrum
q.d.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission chest x-ray showed
cardiomegaly and minimal symptoms of congestive heart
failure.  Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation at 60,
wide QRS with ST depression in V2-V6 and in lead II.

CBC revealed a white blood cell count of 11.3, hematocrit
41.9, platelet count 198,000, 67% neutrophils, 22% lymphs, 8%
monos; INR 2.1, PT 17.9, PTT 26.7; CK #1 86, troponin less
than 0.3; sodium 138, potassium 3.7, chloride 101, bicarb 22,
BUN 30, creatinine 1.0, glucose 97.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient's CK enzymes were cycled.  He
was placed on telemetry and oxygen.  Heparin was started.  He
was to have possible catheterization in the morning.
Coumadin was held.

The patient was taken to Catheterization where he was found
to have three-vessel disease.  Coronary angiography of the
native vessels revealed a right dominant system with
three-vessel disease.  LMCA had mild 20% distal disease,
proximal and mid left anterior descending with mild diffuse
disease up to 60%.  D1 had severe diffuse disease up to 95%
at its origin with subtotally occluded mid vessel.  Left
circumflex was with severe disease in the proximal and mid
segments and totally occluded distally.  Mid right coronary
artery was with diffuse disease up to 40% and 80% tubular
lesion.  Mid vessel 80% lesion seen at the ostium of the
acute marginal.  Graft angiography showed a patent LIMA left
anterior descending and saphenous vein graft posterior
descending artery graft.  The saphenous vein graft/ramus/OM1
had a 60% lesion with nonlaminar flow suspicious for
thrombus. Right atrial pressure was 13 mmHg with PCP 26 and
LV 115/24.  Rheolytic thrombectomy and stenting of the
saphenous vein graft jump segment from R1 to OM was performed
with no residual stenosis and improvement in the long laminar
flow.

Final diagnosis was native three-vessel coronary artery
disease, patent LIMA LAD and SVG PDA1 graft, nonlaminar flow
in jump segment of SVG ramus OM1 with 60% lesion after first
anastomosis.  This was suspicious for thrombus, moderate size
ventricular diastolic dysfunction, and successful rheolytic
thrombectomy, and PTCA stenting of the SVG jump segment from
R1 to OM1.

After catheterization, the patient did well and was started
on Heparin and Coumadin for atrial fibrillation with
intention to titrate up Coumadin; however, the patient
developed large hematomas and ecchymosis at the elbow, thigh,
and leg while on Heparin.  She also had an increased heart
rate and a new complaint of left lower quadrant pain without
rebound.  The patient was sent for abdominal CT which showed
a retroperitoneal bleed.  Heparin and Coumadin were
discontinued.  Three units of packed red blood cells were
transfused, and hematocrit was stabilized.  The patient also
intermittently complained of light-headedness, and on [**5-29**], the patient was with an increased heart rate early in the
morning which was treated with 5 mg of Diltiazem IV and
reinstitution of Verapamil.  Heart rate reached the 130s.
The patient also experience hyponatremia which improved upon
discharge.  It was felt to be secondary to diarrhea and/or
Zaroxolyn.  The patient's Zaroxolyn was held, and he was
placed on 1 L fluid restriction.

On [**5-30**], the patient was without any complaints until 1
p.m. that day when he was walking with Physical Therapy and
experienced shortness of breath and a tachycardiac atrial
fibrillation rhythm to 106 with maintenance of good blood
pressure.  The patient laid down and was resting, and
symptoms resolved.  At 1:30 p.m., the patient complained of
chest tightness, increasing shortness of breath, and denied
nausea or vomiting.  He was found to have atrial fibrillation
in the 130s with a blood pressure of 100/60, with an oxygen
saturation of 96% on 4 L oxygen nasal cannula.  Diltiazem 10
mg was pushed, and the patient's t.i.d. Verapamil dose was
given at 60 mg.  The patient's symptoms resolved, and the
heart rate decreased to the low 100s.  Chest x-ray was
negative for congestive heart failure.  Heart rate still
rebounded in the 110s to 120s, and an additional 40 mg of
Verapamil was given.  A Diltiazem drip was then started at
5:45 p.m. along with a 10 mg push of Diltiazem at midnight
secondary to inability to control rate.  On the following
morning, the patient's heart rate was in the 70s to 80s, but
he was still experiencing desaturation and tachypnea.

He was sent down for an angiographic CT to rule out PE and
was found to have multiple PEs on the left, more than the
right, with a large clot to the left main.  Retroperitoneal
bleed remained unchanged.  The patient remained
hemodynamically stable and on a Diltiazem