Admission Date:  [**2126-11-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2126-11-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2074-9-2**]     Sex:  F

Service:  Medicine

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 52-year-old
female with no known cardiopulmonary history who presented
with a chief complaint of dyspnea on exertion as well as
exertional chest tightness which was acute-on-chronic.

The patient stated her symptoms began in [**2123**] and have
increased in intensity and frequency every since then.  She
reports dyspnea on exertion and chest tightness daily which
worsened significantly one day prior to admission.  Says that
she could not walk a few yards without developing symptoms.
She describes the chest tightness as substernal and
epigastric.  She denied any associated nausea, vomiting,
diaphoresis, lightheadedness, or dizziness.  She does have
radiation of the pain to her neck and jaw bilaterally.  She
also describes a fast heart rate and palpitations.  She
stated her symptoms improved with rest, and she denied any
symptoms beginning when she was at rest.  The patient reports
a previous workup which included a negative exercise
treadmill test, a normal MIBI in [**2123-3-21**], and a normal
echocardiogram in [**2124**] (except some borderline mild pulmonary
hypertension) with an ejection fraction of 55%.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   Review of systems was significant for
menopausal symptoms (for which she has attempted hormone
replacement therapy, discontinued in [**2126**]).  She also reports
difficulty sleeping, daytime sleepiness.  She sleeps on
elevated pillows secondary to her gastroesophageal reflux
disease.  Occasional paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea in the past
but none recently.  Occasional lower extremity edema, left
greater than right.  No abdominal or urinary complaints.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
2.  Grave's, status post radiation resulting in
hypothyroidism.
3.  Migraines.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Synthroid, Prilosec 20 mg p.o.,
Fioricet, Celebrex.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN causes a rash.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Diabetes, Grave's disease, but no history of
cardiopulmonary disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her husband, and they
have no children.  She denies any tobacco or alcohol history.
She does use herbal remedies including Primrose oil, Siberian
ginseng, and has a history of use of wallerian root.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs were
temperature of 98.4, heart rate 74, blood pressure 130/91,
respiratory rate 21, satting 98% on room air.  HEENT revealed
pupils were equally round and reactive to light.  The
oropharynx was clear.  Neck was supple, no lymphadenopathy,
no thyromegaly, no jugular venous distention, and no bruits.
Lungs had scant crackles at the left base and middle field;
otherwise clear.  Cardiovascular had a regular rate and
rhythm.  No murmurs.  No fourth heart sound or third heart
sound.  No parasternal heave.  Gastrointestinal revealed
soft, nontender, and nondistended.  No hepatosplenomegaly.
No masses.  No bruits.  Normal active bowel sounds.
Extremities had no edema, 2+ distal pedis.  Neurologically,
grossly nonfocal.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  At the time of admission,
white blood cell count 11.1, hematocrit 37.7, platelets 326.
Sodium 140, potassium 4, chloride 105, bicarbonate 28,
BUN 17, creatinine 0.8, glucose 76.  Creatine kinase 100,
MB 4, troponin of less than 0.3.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram revealed left atrial
hypertrophy, right ventricular hypertrophy, and poor R wave
progression which were new.  Also, T wave inversions in II,
III, aVF, V1 through V5; new evolving right bundle-branch
block.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient is a 52-year-old female with
no known history of cardiac disease presenting with dyspnea
on exertion and chest tightness, who was admitted for
evaluation and management of her symptoms.

1.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  The patient was admitted for complaints
of dyspnea on exertion and chest pressure which could be
consistent with angina.  However, given the long duration of
the symptoms and negative workup in the past, it was thought
to be unlikely.  However, the patient was started on an
aspirin as well as a beta blocker, and a rule out myocardial
infarction protocol was initiated.

A stress thallium was planned for the day following
admission.  However, on the night of admission the patient
was found lying in her bed diaphoretic and obtunded, and a
code was called.  Further examination revealed a strong
palpable pulse with a systolic blood pressure in the 130s and
a heart rate in the 80s.  Over the course of the next few
minutes the patient became increasingly more responsive.  She
was treated with a fluid bolus.  The patient quickly
responded to a fluid bolus and became interactive.  She
reported that she was sitting on the commode urinating and
began to feel nauseous and presyncopal.  She was able to get
to bed at which point she passed out.  She denied any chest
pain or pressure, and no shortness of breath during this
event.

A rhythm check obtained during the time of this event
demonstrated a pause of six seconds followed by a junctional
escape rhythm.  An electrocardiogram obtained after the code
demonstrated no acute changes.

Her acute bradycardic event was felt likely secondary to her
new beta blocker in conjunction with a vagal response.  It
was determined to stop the beta blocker, and atropine was
placed at the bedside.

On the following day the patient underwent an echocardiogram
which demonstrated dilated right ventricle secondary to
chronic dysfunction and a pulmonary artery pressure of
greater than 100.  Her stress test was cancelled.

A CT angiogram was ordered to evaluate for chronic
thromboembolic disease as a potential cause of her pulmonary
hypertension.  She was ruled out for myocardial infarction
with three sets of normal enzymes and continued to be
monitored on telemetry.

A Pulmonary consultation was obtained to evaluate for
possible etiology of the patient's hypotension.  There was
little evidence to suggest any cardiac disease, and given the
patient's Grave's disease an autoimmune process was felt to
be possible.  In addition, consideration was given to
sarcoidosis, human immunodeficiency virus, and drug-induced
given her history of herbal medication use.  It was
recommended that the patient begin anticoagulation given the
severity of her pulmonary hypertension.  It was also planned
to undergo a right heart catheterization with a vasodilation
trial by the catheterization laboratory.

A right heart catheterization was performed on [**2126-11-15**].  A pharmacologic pulmonary vasodilator challenge was
performed with a positive response.  In addition, a CT
angiogram of the chest with pulmonary embolism protocol
showed no intravascular filling defect but did show a right
upper lobe ground-glass and scattered adenopathy.  Therefore,
in the end left atrial hypertension was essentially ruled out
as a primary cause.  Chronic pulmonary embolus was less
likely given her negative CT angiogram.  Chronic lung disease
was unlikely given the patient's normal pulmonary function
tests and DLCO in [**2124**] as well as a normal CT angiogram.
Collagen vascular disease could not be definitively ruled
out; however, given the patient's lack of connective tissue
disorder stigmata it was thought to be less likely, and the
patient's human immunodeficiency virus test was negative.
Therefore, it was felt that the patient was most likely
experiencing a primary pulmonary hypertension.

Consideration was given to treating the patient with a course
of calcium channel blocker; however, given the patient's poor
response to Lopressor, it was determined that this would not
be optimal treatment for the patient's pulmonary
hypertension.  Therefore, her insurance company was contact[**Name (NI) **]
regarding the potential of Flolan as a treatment.

Plans were made for placement of a Hickman catheter and
initiation of Flolan treatment.  However, on [**11-17**], the
patient once again experienced an episode of
unresponsiveness.  Upon arrival by the physician the patient
was awake, alert, and oriented with a pulse in the 80s, with
pressure 