Admission Date:  [**2158-9-22**]       Discharge Date:  [**2158-9-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2092-10-18**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Cough times one week with shortness of
breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 65 year-old
male with hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes
mellitus status post bilateral below the knee amputation,
history of coronary artery disease status post myocardial
infarction with four vessel coronary artery bypass graft in
[**2151**], morbid obesity who is transferred from outside hospital
for cardiac catheterization evaluation of congestive heart
failure for tailored therapy.  The patient initially
presented to an outside hospital for dry cough, afebrile for
the past two weeks, progressively worsening with positive
orthopnea, occasional paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and no
edema.  The patient reportedly had a urinary tract infection
two weeks prior to the cough.  The patient initially had a
chest x-ray that was shown to be consistent with pulmonary
edema and failure and placed on Lasix and Zaroxolyn at the
outside hospital.  While there the patient had a troponin
leak with acute ST T wave changes and started on a heparin
drip with bolus, aspirin, beta blocker, Hydralazine, Imdur,
Nitropaste and oxygen.  Cardiology was consulted at the
outside hospital where a 2D echocardiogram was done.  Reports
at this time are pending and the patient was consented to be
transferred to the [**Hospital1 69**] for
cardiac catheterization.  The patient also was noted to have
sinus tachycardia and electrocardiogram with left axis
deviation and left ventricular hypertrophy consistent with an
old infarct in the inferior region and a history of atrial
flutter/atrial fibrillation/ atrial tachycardia pattern.  On
arrival to the [**Hospital1 69**] the
patient had a cardiac catheterization that was done, which
showed elevated filling pressures of right atrium 22, right
ventricle 55/23, pulmonary artery 55/40, pulmonary capillary
wedge pressure 28, left ventricular and diastolic pressure
28, cardiac output 5.1, cardiac index 2.4, by FICK and SVR of
1114.  The patient also had anterolateral hypokinesis and
apical dyskinesias.  A left ventricular ejection fraction of
50%.  The patient was noted to have native three vessel
disease and a proximal occlusion in the saphenous vein graft
to the distal left circumflex.  Mild left ventricular
systolic dysfunction.  Given the fact that the patient had
good collateral flow and that the saphenous vein graft with
the occlusion had diseased artery distally there was no
intervention done in the catheterization laboratory and the
patient was transferred to the Cardiac Care Unit for tailored
therapy of his congestive heart failure.  There was no
underlying ischemic component to suggest that his congestive
heart failure was secondary to his ischemic event.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.5.  Heart rate 100.
Blood pressure 126/65.  Respiratory rate 20.  Sating 97% on 3
liters and a weight of 122 kilograms.  In general, the
patient is sitting upright in no acute distress.  HEENT
oropharynx is benign.  Dentures in place.  Mucous membranes
are moist.  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Neck supple.  No
masses.  Jugulovenous pulse to the angle of the jaw.  Chest
bibasilar crackles right greater then left to one third of
the way up the lung fields.  Otherwise clear to auscultation
superiorly apically.  Coronary irregularly irregular, heart
rate in the 100s.  Grade 3 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur
in the left upper sternal border.  Normal S1 and S2.
Positive S3.  Abdomen soft, nontender, nondistended, positive
bowel sounds.  Positive hepatomegaly.  No fluid wave.  Groin
right femoral pulse 2+, dressing clean, dry and intact.  No
hematoma.  No cord and no bruits.  Extremities 2+ distal
popliteal pulses.  The patient is status post below the knee
amputation.  Warm and well perfuse.  No clubbing, cyanosis or
edema.  Neurological alert and oriented times three.  Cranial
nerves II through XII are intact.  Moves all extremities
spontaneously.

DATA:  Admission data white blood cell count 11.3, INR 1.1,
hematocrit 37.5, initial potassium 6.6, repeat was 3.6, BUN
51, creatinine 2.2.  Electrocardiogram left axis deviation,
left ventricular hypertrophy, atrial tachycardia with
variable block, rate of 68.  No ST T wave abnormalities.  Q
waves in the inferior leads, diffuse poor R wave progression.
Chest x-ray bilateral hilar fullness with cephalization of
the vessels and bilateral small pleural effusions.  Cardiac
catheterization as described above.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiovascular:  Myocardium, the
patient had elevated filling examinations on cardiac
catheterization, bilateral crackles, positive jugulovenous
distention and orthopnea all consistent with a clinical
picture of congestive heart failure.  The patient's Swan
catheter was pulled prior to the patient arriving to the
Coronary Care Unit so no hemodynamic [**Hospital1 7941**] of the
filling pressures were to be obtaiend in the Coronary Care
Unit.  The patient had a goal diuresis on hospital day one of
2 liters and the patient was placed on a Lasix drip with
Zaroxolyn q.a.m. as well as a nitro drip and Hydralazine for
improved preload.  No inotropic support was initiated.  The
patient was diuresed for a total of 1 liter on hospital day
one, but subsequently had a drop off in his urine output over
the next few days although the patient was on a Lasix drip.
Given the drop off and no further response with the Lasix the
patient was thought to be in acute renal failure.  The
patient's creatinine also began to bump from 2.2 to 2.5 to
3.0 to 3.3 and the patient was presumed to have acute
contrast induced nephropathy secondary to cardiac
catheterization dye and the patient's urine output was
followed.  During this hospitalization stay we had considered
causes for his congestive heart failure given his clean
coronaries on cardiac catheterization.  Ischemia was ruled
out as a cause.  However, the patient did continue to have
significant atrial tachycardia during this admission.  The
patient continued to be monitored for his urine output and
diuresis was held off in light of the impending acute on
chronic renal failure.  By discharge the patient had a
creatinine down to 2.6 with improvement of his urine output
and further diuresis was initiated with again a goal of minus
1 liter and on the day of discharge the patient had a 1.5
diuresis overnight with improvement of his crackles and
clinical examination.

Rhythm, the patient continued to have atrial tachycardia with
variable block on examination.  The patient was rate
controlled on the beta blocker in house.  A heparin drip was
started to anticoagulate the patient.  The patient refused
Coumadin during hospitalization stay.  Electrophysiology was
consulted and recommended that the patient undergo
electrocardioversion.  It was thought that the patient's
heart rhythm along with the AV dissociation was the cause of
this patient's congestive heart failure symptoms given his
negative ischemic study and that he had no significant
valvular disease.  As a result the patient underwent an EE
transesophageal echocardiogram on [**9-26**] to evaluate for
clot and under this guidance underwent a DC
electrocardioversion back into normal sinus rhythm.  The
patient tolerated the procedure well without any
complications.  On the night after the electrocardioversion
the patient experienced a mild run of continued atrial
tachycardia.  Per EP's evaluation the patient was started on
Amiodarone loaded in house and the patient was noted to have
a prolonged interval.  Given the Amiodarone and the beta
blocker the patient's beta blocker was decreased in the dose
and was continued to monitor in house.  Upon seeing the
patient that morning the patient was requesting to leave
against medical advise and was refusing further management.
The patient refused Coumadin.  Given this situation the
patient was to be discharged with [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] of Hearts monitor
with follow up the electrophysiologist here at the [**Hospital1 1444**].  The patient was not to be
Amiodarone