Admission Date:  [**2143-12-4**]     Discharge Date:  [**2143-12-11**]

Date of Birth:                  Sex:

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient was an 87 year-old
female with a past medical history of coronary artery disease
status post myocardial infarction with congestive heart
failure and a known EF of 20%.  She presented with increasing
back pain for several days that worsened two days prior to
admission.  She had been taking increasing doses of Ibuprofen
as frequently as 400 mg every four hours.  On the day prior
to admission she had nausea and vomiting times two without
coffee grounds or hematemesis.  However, she did have
frequent dark tarry stools without diarrhea.  On the morning
of admission she felt increasing dizzy and unsteady and was
seen by her [**Hospital6 407**] who found the patient
to be presyncopal with low blood pressure.  EMT was called.
Her blood pressures were equal in both arms at 84/palp.  She
was given 500 cc bolus in the field and transferred to the
Emergency Department for further evaluation where a rectal
examination was positive for OB stool.  Nasogastric lavage
showed minimal coffee grounds that had cleared with 60 cc.
She was given 5 mg of subcutaneous vitamin K and gentle
hydration and transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for
further monitoring.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Negative for chest pain.  She has chronic
shortness of breath on exertion that is stable.  She denies
any abdominal pain or rectal pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease status
post inferior myocardial infarction in [**2-/2143**], status post
catheterization with three vessel disease, status post
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with stent to
the right coronary artery.  2.  Congestive heart failure with
an EF of 20 to 25%.  3.  Chronic atrial fibrillation on
Coumadin.  4.  Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia status
post an AICD placement currently on Amiodarone.  5.
Hypertension.  6.  Hypothyroidism.  7.  Chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease on oxygen at home.  8.  Type 2 diabetes.
9.  Hearing loss.  10.  History of cerebrovascular accident.
11.  Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine
of 1.2.  12.  Aortic aneurysms thoracic 4 cm, infrarenal is
3.9 by 4.4 cm.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives alone.  She is DNR/DNI.  Her
daughter and granddaughter live about two hours away and are
her closest support.  She has a remote history of tobacco use
and denies alcohol use.  Her daughter is [**Name (NI) **] [**Name (NI) 104021**], phone
number is [**Telephone/Fax (1) 104018**] and her granddaughter is [**Name (NI) **] [**Name (NI) 19122**],
[**Telephone/Fax (1) 104019**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  She is alert and oriented
times three and in no acute distress.  Temperature 97.6.
Heart rate 60.  Blood pressure 101/54.  Respirations 14.
Oxygen saturation 98%.  Her HEENT examination is
unremarkable.  Her neck is supple without JVD or
lymphadenopathy.  Her lungs are clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Her cardiac examination is irregularly
irregular. She has normal S1 and S2 with a 2 out of 6
systolic murmur at the left sternal border without radiation.
Her adomen was obese, soft, nontender, nondistended.  She has
a palpable epigastric pulsatile mass without bruits.
Extremities are no edema.  She has 2+ femoral and dorsalis
pedis pulses bilaterally.  Neurological examination is
grossly intact.  Rectal examination black tarry stool, guaiac
positive.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  Hemoglobin is 9.1, hematocrit
26.5, platelets are 209, INR 1.9, creatinine is 2.5.
Electrocardiogram is paced at 64 beats per minute.  ST
segment elevations 1 mm in 2, 3 and AVF, she has biphasic T
waves in V5 and 6 as well as 3 and F.  Poor R wave
progression 1 through 4.  ST depressions of half to 1 mm in
V5 and V6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient had her INR reversed with
vitamin K and bolus with intravenous fluids as needed.  She
eventually went for an esophagogastroduodenoscopy that was
without evidence for a clear bleeding source, although the
gastrointestinal service felt that an upper gastrointestinal
bleed secondary to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs was
the most likely etiology of her blood loss.  She was treated
with proton pump inhibitor and transfused as needed to keep
over 30 without recurrence of bleeding.

The patient continued to have atrial fibrillation and was
reloaded on her Coumadin prior to discharge.  The patient
ruled in for a myocardial infarction during her Intensive
Care Unit stay and was presumed to be secondary to the strain
of aggressive fluid and her known congestive heart failure.
She was treated medically with a beta blocker and an ace
inhibitor was started.  Her CKs peaked at 411 with a troponin
of 6.3.  The MB fraction remained negative.  Aspirin was held
throughout, because the process was not thought to be a
plaque rupture and there was more concern for her bleeding
then for a plaque rupture.

The patient did subsequently have serology that was positive
for Helicobacter pylori and was treated appropriately.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Multivitamin, Levoxyl 0.1 mg po q.d.,
Protonix 40 mg b.i.d., Amiodarone 100 mg po q.d., Atrovent
MDI two puffs q.i.d., Serevent two puffs b.i.d., Lasix 60 mg
po q.d., Atenolol 12.5 mg po q.d., Coumadin 3 mg po q.h.s.,
Glyburide 5 mg po b.i.d., Univasc 3.75 mg po q.d.

The patient was discharged to rehab.  Follow up will be with
her primary care physician [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 1266**].






                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4263**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 7115**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2144-7-29**]  13:49
T:  [**2144-8-4**]  10:39
JOB#:  [**Job Number 104022**]
