Admission Date:  [**2183-8-21**]     Discharge Date:  [**2183-8-26**]

Date of Birth:   [**2114-9-17**]     Sex:  M

Service:  C-MED Gold

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 68-year-old
gentleman with a significant cardiac history with coronary
artery disease (status post coronary artery bypass graft),
hypertension, congestive heart failure, hyperlipidemia, and
diabetes mellitus who presented with worsening congestive
heart failure of several months in duration with new onset
chest pressure.

The patient was in his usual state of health until three days
prior to admission when he began to experience increasing
shortness of breath at rest and with exertion. However, the
patient was still able to walk his dog for approximately one
half of a mile per day.  No paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.  No
orthopnea.  Minimal bilateral lower extremity edema at
baseline.

The patient had one episode of [**5-10**] chest pressure (his
anginal equivalent) with exertion three days prior to
admission which resolved after one hour.

On the day prior to admission, the patient had a second
episode of [**10-10**] chest pressure, substernal, and without
radiation.  No associated nausea, vomiting, or palpitations.
Mild diaphoresis and lightheadedness.  The patient took one
sublingual nitroglycerin, and his pain score went down to
7/10, and he presented to the [**Hospital1 188**] Emergency Department for evaluation.

In the [**Hospital1 **] Emergency Department, the
patient's chest pressure was relieved with aspirin, heparin,
nitroglycerin, and Integrilin.  He also received metoprolol
intravenously.  He did continue to be short of breath despite
receiving 80 mg of Lasix intravenously on arrival.

The initial electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia with a
left bundle-branch block and left atrial abnormality, without
any significant changed when compared to the previous tracing
of [**2183-2-22**].  His initial creatine kinase was 326
with a troponin T of 0.31.

Of note, the patient denies fevers or chills.  He has a
slight cough with sputum.  He is not on a low diet.  No
recent dietary indiscretion.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease.
(a)  Status post coronary artery bypass graft in [**2172**]; left
internal mammary artery to left anterior descending artery,
saphenous vein graft to right coronary artery, and saphenous
vein graft to diagonal.
(b)  Persantine MIBI on [**2183-2-4**] demonstrated a
dilated left ventricle, partially reversible moderate
perfusion defect in the anterior left ventricular wall, with
moderate fixed deficits at the septal/inferior walls, global
and left ventricular hypokinesis with an ejection fraction of
21%.
2.  Congestive heart failure; [**State 531**] Heart Association
class II.  An echocardiogram on [**2183-1-31**] with
depressed left ventricular systolic function with an ejection
fraction of 20%.
3.  Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Hyperlipidemia.
6.  Onychomycosis.
7.  Status post appendectomy.
8.  Anemia with leukocytosis.
9.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; last pulmonary
function tests in [**2183-2-1**] with a mixed
obstructive/restrictive deficit.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Lisinopril 40 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Lipitor 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Cardura 2 mg by mouth q.h.s.
 4.  Celexa 40 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Coreg 12.5 mg by mouth q.a.m.
 6.  Digoxin 0.25 mg by mouth every day.
 7.  Lasix 80 mg by mouth once per day.
 8.  Lumigan 0.03% drops q.h.s.
 9.  Timoptic 0.25% drops both eyes q.a.m.
10.  Excedrin by mouth as needed.
11.  NPH insulin 95 units subcutaneously q.a.m. and 90 units
subcutaneously at dinner.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history was noncontributory for
coronary artery disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a retired painter.  He has
been married times 44 years.  He has a 60-pack-year history
of tobacco; he quit 15 years ago.  Occasional alcohol use.
No intravenous drug use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed his temperature was 98.4 degrees
Fahrenheit, blood pressure was 133/64, his heart rate was
107, his respiratory rate went from 40 to 24, and his oxygen
saturation was 95% on 2 liters.  In general, an elderly
gentleman in no apparent distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose,
and throat examination revealed normocephalic and atraumatic.
Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.   Extraocular movements were intact.  The neck
was supple.  No lymphadenopathy.  No thyromegaly.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate.  Normal
first heart sounds and second heart sounds.  No murmurs,
rubs, clicks, or gallops.  Pulmonary examination revealed
decreased breath sounds at the bases bilaterally.  No rales
or wheezes.  The abdomen was obese, soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  Normal active bowel sounds.  No
hepatosplenomegaly or masses.  Extremity examination revealed
2+ pitting edema bilaterally to the knees.  Neurologic
examination revealed alert and oriented times three.  Cranial
nerves II through XII were grossly intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Initial
laboratories revealed creatine kinase was 326, CK/MB was 14,
troponin T was 0.25, and MB index was 4.3.  His white blood
cell count was 7.8, his hematocrit was 33, and his platelets
were 281.  Sodium was 135, potassium was 4.2, chloride was
99, bicarbonate was 28, blood urea nitrogen was 24,
creatinine was 1.1, and blood glucose was 303.  Prothrombin
time was 13.8, partial thromboplastin time was 25.2, and his
INR was 1.3.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray demonstrated
cardiomegaly with pulmonary vasculature redistribution and a
new lingular opacity (pneumonia versus asymmetric pulmonary
edema), and a small calcified granuloma in the right upper
lobe (as previously demonstrated).

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient was admitted to the C-MED Service, placed on
telemetry, and continued on his outpatient cardiac
medications, as well as a nitroglycerin, heparin, and
Integrilin drips.

1.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE ISSUES:  At baseline, the
patient had been on 2 liters nasal cannula of home oxygen.
His oxygen requirement remained stable while in house on 3
liters nasal cannula.  He was saturating at 97%.

An echocardiogram was performed on [**2183-8-21**] which
demonstrated an ejection fraction of 20% with global
hypokinesis; consistent with prior examination.

The patient was continued on digoxin 0.25 mg by mouth once
per day and Lasix 80 mg intravenously once per day.  Daily
weights and strict ins-and-outs were monitored.  On the day
of discharge, the patient no longer had edema of the lower
extremities.  He was saturating at 100% on 2 liters with his
lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally.

2.  CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE ISSUES:  The patient ruled in by
enzyme criteria; however, his electrocardiogram continued to
be unchanged with a left bundle-branch block at baseline.

There was consideration of catheterization during this
inpatient stay; however, given the patient's complications
with gastrointestinal bleeds, as well as his reluctance to
undergo this procedure, this was deferred.

The patient underwent a chemical stress MIBI on [**2183-8-26**]; during which time he had no anginal symptoms or
interpretable electrocardiogram changes.  By verbal report,
the nuclear portion of this study demonstrated fixed defects
in the anterior/inferior walls with an ejection fraction of
20% and left ventricular cavity enlargement.

3.  ANEMIA/GASTROINTESTINAL BLEED ISSUES:  The patient had an
episode of melena on the morning of [**2183-8-22**].  He
denied bright red blood per rectum, hematemesis,
coffee-grounds emesis, nausea, vomiting, or abdominal pain.
He had never had symptoms of gastrointestinal bleeding in the
past.

A nasogastric lavage demonstrated no active upper
gastrointestinal bleed, and his vital signs remained stable
with a stable hematocrit at 29.8.  Two large-bore intravenous
lines were placed, and the patient was transfused a total of
three units of packed red blood cells with 80 mg of
intravenous Lasix prior to this transfusion.  He was also
starte