Admission Date:  [**2123-2-4**]       Discharge Date:  [**2123-2-15**]


Service:  [**Location (un) 259**]
CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mrs. [**Known lastname 33858**] is a
[**Age over 90 **]-year-old woman with a history of cerebrovascular accident,
depression, and dementia, who was brought to the [**Hospital3 **]
Nursing Home after being found hypoxic to 84% oxygenation on
room air.

Per report from the nursing home, the patient had had five
episodes of vomiting, after which she was found to be hypoxic
to 84% on room air.  Her saturations improved to the low 90%
on 100% nonrebeather.  When she vomited again and found to be

In the emergency department, she was noted to have a
temperature to 104 Fahrenheit rectally with a high O2
requirement.  The emergency department staff administered the
Levofloxacin for pneumonia and Lopressor 0.5 mg for
tachycardia; however, this dropped her blood pressure from
the 100s to the 80s; she received normal saline boluses with
some improvement in her blood pressure.

She was transferred to the floor for treatment of her right
lower lobe infiltrate seen on chest x-ray and possible UTI.
She was initially doing well until the evening of [**2-6**], when
she was noted to be hypoxic.  Chest x-ray at that time showed
CHF, as well as a new retrocardiac infiltrate.  Moreover, the
EKG found her in a new rapid atrial fibrillation.  She was
transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit, where she was
treated for infection, pneumonia, UTI, gram-negative rod
sepsis, and CHF, which was felt to be related to her atrial
fibrillation.  She ruled out for a myocardial infarction.
Echocardiogram showed an LV ejection fraction of 45% to 50%
with global mild hypokinesis.  Blood cultures eventually grew
out gram negative (Proteus), which was likely of urinary
origin.  With treatment of the above, she reverted back to
sinus rhythm.  She wall called out to the Medical Service on
the floor.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Dementia.
2.  Depression.
3.  Cerebrovascular accident.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Colace 100 mg PO b.i.d.
2.  Aspirin 325 mg PO q.d.
3.  Polysporin ophthalmological ointment OU b.i.d..

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She is a resident of [**Hospital3 2732**] Home.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Examination on admission revealed the
following;  GENERAL:  Elderly, frail, white female in no
acute distress.  Temperature maximum of 104 rectally,
temperature current of 98 degrees Fahrenheit.  Blood pressure
84/40, heart rate 84, respiratory rate 20, saturation 97% on
room air.  HEENT:  Examination was significant for slightly
dry oropharynx and oral mucosa.  NECK:  Neck was supple with
no lymphadenopathy.  HEART:  rate and rhythm regular with a
noted gallop and a question of an splint S1.  LUNGS:  Lungs
revealed decreased breath sounds bilaterally.  Crackles at
the right base.  ABDOMEN:  Abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended with positive bowel sounds.  EXTREMITIES:  Trace
edema.  NEUROLOGICAL:  Neurologically, she was oriented to
place and person, but not to time.

LABORATORY DATA:  Data at the time of admission revealed the
following:  White count 20, hematocrit 28.2, platelet count
121,000, sodium 147, potassium 3.7, chloride 114, bicarbonate
23, BUN 29, creatinine 1.1, troponin I less than 0.3, CK 53
with serial consecutive CKs negative.  Calcium was 8.6,
phosphorus 4.1, magnesium 1.9, UA showing positive nitrites,
many white cells, many squamous epithelial cells.  ABG
revealed pH of 7.35, CO2 42, O2 208.

IMAGING:  Chest x-ray with no infiltrates, mild-to-moderate
hiatal hernia.  EKG:  Sinus tachycardia at 118 with left
axis, PR prolongation, poor R wave progression, flipped T
waves in leads 1 and L with flattening of the T waves in
leads V5 through V6, no old EKG available for comparison.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  As above, Mrs. [**Known lastname 33858**] was initially
admitted to the floor for treatment of the presumed
aspiration pneumonia.  She did worse.  She was admitted to
the ICU, where she was treated aggressively for both a
presumed UTI and pneumonia with Proteus mirabilis bacteremia.

#1.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  In the emergency department two
sets of blood cultures were drawn.  Of these two sets, one
set did come back for Proteus mirabilis during her stay in
the Medical Intensive Care Unit.  She was continued on
Levofloxacin, which she had initially been started on in the
emergency department as the Proteus, when speciated and
tested for sensitivities was pansensitive including to
Levofloxacin.  While in the Medical Intensive Care Unit, she
was hypotensive and despite the fact that she ruled out for a
MI she received a transthoracic echocardiogram, which had a
question of vegetation on her aortic valve.  However, this
was poorly seen.  Infectious Disease service was asked to
comment and to assist in her management.  It was felt that
given the fact that her bacteremia was indeed Proteus, it was
extremely unlikely that she would actually have a vegetation
from this pathogen on her aortic valve.  As such, she was
continued on her Levofloxacin.  After this course is
finished, she should receive surveillance cultures.  Should
these cultures return positive for Proteus she will need
further workup and therapy for a possible gram-negative
endocarditis.  At this time, a transesophageal echocardiogram
is not indicated given the low probability of an actual
endocarditis.  Of note, although the presumed source of her
Proteus bacteremia was her urinary system, urinary cultures
at no time grew out Proteus or other bacteria.  Given the
question of a aspiration pneumonia she was also treated with
Metronidazole 500 mg t.i.d. for one week.  Upon further
review of her x-rays it was felt that this was unlikely to
represent pneumonia, but rather a small pleural effusion.
She did receive seven days of Metronidazole for which this
medication was stopped.  At the time of discharge, she has
been afebrile for three days with a stable white count in the
range of 3 to 4.

#2.  CARDIAC:   As mentioned previously, an episode of acute
decompensation prompted her transfer to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit.  Part of this was brought on by new onset atrial
fibrillation.  She was not known to have been previously at
any point in atrial fibrillation and this was presumed to be
new.  The subsequent CHF was presumed to be secondary to
hemodynamically significant atrial fibrillation.  She did
receive an echocardiogram, which showed an EF of 40% to 50%
with mild global hypokinesis.  After treatment for her
infection and diuresis for the CHF, she spontaneously
reverted to sinus rhythm after approximately 48 hours.  Given
the short time frame of her atrial fibrillation and the fact
that she was not known to have previously been in this rhythm
and the fact that it was thought to be secondary to her
infection at this point, anticoagulation is not indicated.
However, she should be followed closely in the future for a
return to atrial fibrillation.  Routine cardiac enzymes were
checked upon her admission.  Troponin I and consecutive CKs
were all negative for myocardial infarction.

#3.  ANEMIA.  Four days following admission she was
transfused with one unit of packed red blood cells for anemia
in the setting of poor cardiac status.  Hematocrit at that
time was 27.3%, down from her baseline of approximately
30% to 32%.  This was presumed to be secondary to fluids and
volume overload.  The hematocrit responded appropriately with
an increase to 33%.  At the time of this discharge it is 32%.
Anemia is presumed to be secondary to both iron-deficiency
anemia and chronic disease.  Iron level was 8, TIBC 273,
ferritin 42, B12 411, folate 2.8.

#4.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  In the Intensive Care Unit she
received a swallowing evaluation, which showed aspiration
with liquids.  Since then, her diet has been pureed solids
and thickened liquids.  They should be continued until a late
date, when she can have a followup swallow evaluation.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Gram-negative bacteremia
2.  Urinary tract infection.
3.  Atrial fibrillation.
4.  Congest