Admission Date:  [**2156-1-16**]              Discharge Date:   [**2156-1-30**]

Date of Birth:  [**2115-11-20**]             Sex:   M

Service: MEDICINE

Allergies:
Patient recorded as having No Known Allergies to Drugs

Attending:[**First Name3 (LF) 898**]
Chief Complaint:
Fevers and Rash

Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Transesophageal Echocardiogram

History of Present Illness:
40 yo male with an unremarkable past medical history except for
ulcerative colitis which has been very well controlled with no
recent flares, presents to the ED with a 4 day history of
myalgias and low temperature, along with a temperature spike to
102 and chest pain on the day of admission. During that same
time, he noticed increase swelling and erythema on his R shin
but denies any trauma or insect bites. He describes his chest
pain as being inspirational but not exertional. Never had
symptoms like this before. Also noticed a 1 day swelling of his
L neck / supraclavicular area. He was seen in the ED and had
blood cultures sent and started on IV Oxacillin for presumed
cellulitis and admitted for further evaluation. He was also
found to have EKG changes consistent with pericarditis.

Past Medical History:
1. Ulcerative Colitis

Social History:
He works as a consultant and is married and has 2 children.
Occasional, social EtOH intake but completely denies any tobacco
use or IV recreational drug use.

Family History:
Non contributory

Physical Exam:
VS: Temp 101.2, Pulse 104, BP 110/68, RR 18-20, O2 sat 98% room
air

GEN: mild to moderate respiratory distress
HEENT: PERRLA, EOMI, dry mucous membranes
NECK: no JVD, supple, small swelling around the L
supraclavicular area, tender, and slightly erythematous, non
mobile
LUNGS: CTA bilateral
HEART: tachycardic, distant heart sounds
ABD: soft, ND, NT, no HSM, + bowel sounds
EXTREM: RLE erythema and edema, small petechiae, tender to
palpation - located on the anterior shin with some surrounding
erythema extending to the sides and at the back of his calf
NEURO: AAO x 3

Pertinent Results:
[**2156-1-16**] 02:05PM   WBC-11.6*# RBC-4.98 HGB-15.6 HCT-43.9 MCV-88
MCH-31.3 MCHC-35.5* RDW-12.9 NEUTS-44* BANDS-45* LYMPHS-4*
MONOS-6 EOS-0 BASOS-0 ATYPS-1* METAS-0 MYELOS-0 PLT SMR-NORMAL
PLT COUNT-183

[**2156-1-16**] 02:05PM   GLUCOSE-132* UREA N-12 CREAT-1.0 SODIUM-138
POTASSIUM-3.8 CHLORIDE-102 TOTAL CO2-27 ANION GAP-13

[**2156-1-16**] 02:05PM   CK(CPK)-220* CK-MB-8 cTropnT-0.14*
[**2156-1-16**] 09:05PM   CK(CPK)-210* CK-MB-7 cTropnT-0.26*
[**2156-1-17**] 06:50AM   CK(CPK)-619* CK-MB-39* MB Indx-6.3*
cTropnT-1.86*
[**2156-1-18**] 04:35AM   CK(CPK)-312* CK-MB-12* MB Indx-3.8*
cTropnT-1.37*

US of R LE: No evidence of DVT.

CT Angio: No evidence of acute pulmonary embolus. Multifocal
nodular densities, some of which are patchy and ill defined.
Given the history of fever, these findings are suggestive of an
infectious etiology. A follow up chest CT is advised after
treatment, to confirm resolution.

CT Abdomen / Pelvis: New moderate/large pericardial effusion and
new small bilateral pleural effusions. Progression of disease
within the left upper lobe and right lower lobe with worsening
peripheral opacities, some of which have a wedge-shaped
configuration. These findings raise the question of progression
of septic emboli. Possible peripheral wedge-shaped area of
hypoattenuation/hypoperfusion within the posterior spleen as
well as multiple peripheral areas of possible infarction within
both kidneys. New small amount of ascites. No clear source for
the patient's suspected septic emboli identified within the
chest, abdomen, and pelvis with no abscesses or definite thrombi
identified.

MRI Neck: Abnormal enhancement surrounding the distal
sternocleidomastoid muscle with perhaps a minute central area of
nonenhancing. No drainable collection is present. The
radiological differential diagnosis includes infectious
etiolgies and a myositis.

MRI Abdomen: No deep venous thrombus in the pelvic veins or
inferior vena cava.

Echo [**1-21**]: The left atrium is normal in size. Left ventricular
wall thicknesses and cavity size are normal. Overall left
ventricular systolic function is normal (LVEF>55%). The right
ventricle is borderline dilated with preserved systolic  free
wall motion. The aortic valve leaflets (3) are mildly thickened.
The mitral valve appears structurally normal with trivial mitral
regurgitation. The left ventricular inflow pattern suggests a
restrictive filling abnormality, with elevated left atrial
pressure. There is a slight interventricular septal bounce.
These findings are suggestive of an element of pericardial
constriction. There is mild pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension. There is a partially echo dense small pericardial
region consistent with residual pericardial effusion and
possible thickened pericardium. There are no echocardiographic
signs of tamponade.


Brief Hospital Course:
40 year old male who presents to the ED with fever, chills, and
R lower extremity cellulitis and found to be bacteremic now and
developed abscess on R shin and is s/p I and D by the surgical
team.

1. Bacteremia - patient initially presented with fever and
chills and started on IV Oxacillin. His blood cultures grew
Staph Aureus Coag + (2/4 bottles from admission day) and so
switched to IV Vancomycin and also received IV Clindamycin for
toxic syndrome coverage. Given his bacteremia and his fever, it
was concerning for endocarditis, and he had a TTE that showed no
vegetations but some pericardial effusion. Had a repeat TEE
which was negative for vegetations or any abscess formation. The
sensitivities returned and it was MSSA and so he was wtiched to
Gentamicin and Oxacillin. However, soon his pericardial effusion
progressed and he went into tamponade leading to emergent
drainage with a pericardial drain. His fluid from the
pericardial effusion was unremarkable in terms of bacterial
infections. His blood cultures and fungal cultures from
subsequent blood has been negative or no growth to date. He was
switched to cefazolin because he developed a presumed drug rash.
 His gentamycin was discontinued once it was clear that the
bacteremia had cleared and the patient was discharged on
cefazolin to complete a 6 week course of iv antibiotics, ending
[**2156-3-1**].  The patient will follow up with Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 17444**] from
infectious diseases just prior to stopping the antibiotics.

2. RLE Cellulitis/Abscess - initially he was on oxacillin and
then switched to Vanco, and then switched back to Oxacillin once
his blodo cultures were found to be MSSA. However, given his
drug rash, he was switched to Cephazolin but despite being on it
and Gentamicin, his leg continued to swell and become more
localized and erythematous. He was seen by the Dermatology team
who biopsied the lesion and the prelim results on that was that
it was a resolving cellulitis.  He Had an MRI that showed a
large 15 x 6 cm fluid filled abscess which was immediately seen
by the Ortho team and he was taken to the OR for an I and D. He
tolerated the procedure well and significant amount of purulent
fluid was drained and sent for cultures. He had a Hemovac drain
attached to his wound at that time.  The drain was left in place
for nearly 72 hours with minimal drainage. One day prior to
discharge, the drain was removed and the wound was inspected and
found to have subcutaneous edema but no abscess.  The patient
was ambulating with crutches (non-weight bearing on right leg).
He was maintained on oxycontin and oxycodone for pain control
and was given a 2 week supply. The patient will follow up with
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 2719**] next Tuesday, [**2156-2-3**].

3. Pericarditis / Tamponade - initially it was felt that he had
pericarditis and so was started on Indomethacin and Colchicine.
His pain was well controlled but he developed the effusion
leading to ? tamponade and was drained. After the procedure, he
was restarted on colchicine as per Cardiology who recommended
that it would minimize the risk of constriction and it should be
continued for 1-2 years. He had repeat TTEs that was unchanged
and it was recommended that he h