Admission Date: [**2172-5-20**]        Discharge Date: [**2172-6-2**]


Service:  CME


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 56406**] is an 80-year-old
male with past medical history significant for peripheral
vascular disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
who presented initially to [**Hospital6 8283**] with
the complaint of chest pain.  The patient was ambulating at 4
a.m. on the day of admission, reported feeling an "awful"
chest pain associated with dyspnea but not associated with
nausea or diaphoresis.  The patient reports drinking brandy
with slight improvement in his symptoms.  However, the pain
recurred at approximately 9 a.m. on the day of admission
while performing landscaping work in his yard.  An
accompanying friend provided sublingual nitroglycerin with
resolution of the pain.  Upon resumption of his activity the
patient again had recurrent pain and was taken to [**Hospital6 4299**] by EMS.

On further review of systems the patient reports similar
symptoms with exertion over the past several weeks.  Each
resolved with rest but was severe in character.  Upon
presentation to [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Department the patient reported minimal residual
chest pain and denied it ever radiating to his arm, jaw, or
back.  He was not complaining of shortness of breath.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. COPD.
2. Peripheral vascular disease.
3. Depression.
4. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
5. Post traumatic stress disorder.


ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Wellbutrin 150 mg q.d.
2. Digoxin 125 mg q.d. times two to three months.
Of note, patient was transferred from [**Hospital3 4298**] on a
nitro drip and Heparin drip.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Unknown.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Greater than 100-pack-year smoking history.
Alcohol consumption of greater than 12 ounces of brandy each
day with subjective report of prior minor withdrawal symptoms
upon cessation.  No history of DTs or seizures.  The patient
is a retired home builder who lives on [**Hospital3 4298**] full
time.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.8, blood pressure
140/80, pulse of 75, breathing 18, 97 percent on 2 liters.
In general, this is a pleasant, elderly man in no apparent
distress.  HEENT exam:  Pupils equal, round and reactive to
light; extraocular movements intact.  Chest:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally; notable for distant breath sounds.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs or
rubs; normal S1, S2.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, not
distended.  Extremities:  No edema, no clubbing, no cyanosis
appreciated; pulses 1 plus femorals bilaterally, dorsalis
pedis not palpable on either side but Dopplerable.

PERTINENT DIAGNOSTICS:  EKG:  Sinus tachycardia, 100,
downsloping ST segment in 1 and aVL, 1 to [**Street Address(2) 1766**] depression
in V3 through V6, [**Street Address(2) 4793**] elevation in V1.

INITIAL LABORATORY DATA FROM THE OUTSIDE FACILITY:  CBC:
White count 5.8, hematocrit 37, platelets 143.  Chemistries:
Sodium 141, potassium 4.5, chloride 101, bicarbonate 32, BUN
27, creatinine 1.9 (unknown baseline), glucose 86, PT and PTT
10.6 and 23.5, respectively.  Digoxin level 0.61, troponin I
0.1.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was felt to have
symptoms consistent with unstable angina; thus the Heparin
and nitroglycerin drips were continued.  The patient was
placed on aspirin, beta blocker, and statin and was planned
to go to cardiac catheterization the morning following
admission.

Upon coronary catheterization the patient was found to have
one-vessel coronary artery disease with a 90 percent ostial
lesion of the left anterior descending.  After initial
stenting of the LAD there was plaque shift to the ostium of
the left circumflex; subsequent placing of a  stent in the
left circumflex revealed good flow through both arteries.  In
light of the patient's elevated creatinine on admission the
patient received peri cath hydration and Mucomyst in attempt
to further prevent rises in serum creatinine.

On the day following catheterization the patient was noted to
be persistently hypertensive with a gradually declining
mental status with agitation.  The patient was noted to be
somewhat tremulous with disorientation, at which time he
received 2 mg of Ativan for concerns of alcohol withdrawal.
Repeat EKG at this time revealed no other changes.  He was
placed on nitro drip for his hypertension.

A chest x-ray at the time revealed findings consistent with
mild failure and an ABG indicated hypercarbic respiratory
failure.  The patient was immediately evaluated by the
Cardiac Care Unit team, and despite aggressive diuresis and
increased afterload reduction with nitroglycerin and
Hydralazine, the patient continued to have rising PCO2s.
Anesthesia was then called and the patient was intubated at
the bedside and transferred to the CCU.  A head CT was
performed which showed no evidence of acute hemorrhage,
however revealed chronic white matter infarctions.  An
echocardiogram was then performed which revealed a preserved
ejection fraction of greater than 55 percent.

While in the CCU the patient was maintained on an Ativan drip
given the presumptive diagnosis of delirium tremens given his
history of alcohol abuse and presentation of altered mental
status.  His Ativan drip was gradually weaned off following
the course of his CCU stay, and upon transfer out to the
floor the patient was without evidence of further withdrawal
symptoms or signs.

The patient's renal failure was thought to be due to a
combination of prerenal azotemia with subsequent contrast
nephropathy from the dye administration during cardiac
catheterization.  His creatinine reached a peak of 2.2 and
was resolving at the time of discharge.  The patient was
unable to tolerate an ACE inhibitor due to this rise in his
serum creatinine.  All meds that were given were renally
dosed.

The patient was noted to have a hematocrit drop to 25 during
his CCU stay, at which time a CT scan of the abdomen was
obtained to ensure that there was no evidence of
retroperitoneal hematoma or hemorrhage as a potential
complication of his cardiac catheterization.  The patient
received two units of blood with appropriate increase in his
hematocrit, which remained stable throughout the remainder of
his hospitalization.

The patient's hypercarbic respiratory failure was thought to
be secondary to congestive heart failure in the setting of
uncontrolled hypertension secondary to his DTS.  After
weaning his Ativan drip as described above and sufficient
diuresis, the patient was extubated with follow up chest x-
rays revealing a potential aspiration pneumonia.  The patient
was afebrile with a minimal cough that was nonproductive.
However, given radiographic demonstration of potential
aspiration and the patient's history of intubation, he was
given ceftriaxone and Flagyl for this potential aspiration
pneumonia.

The patient received blood cultures during his CCU course
that revealed one out of four bottles positive for gram
positive cocci subsequently identified as coagulase negative
Staphylococcus.  Initially vancomycin was administered given
the concern for a gram positive bacteremia.  However, upon
further identification and failure of the other cultures and
subsequent surveillance cultures to grow out, the vancomycin
was held.

On transfer to the Telemetry floor the patient was evaluated
by the Speech and Swallow team and a formal video swallow
with barium was performed.  The patient was demonstrated to
have evidence of aspiration of thin liquid, and aspiration
precautions were requested.  The patient was administered no
thin liquids and placed on diet of soft solids and purees.
Repeat video swallow evaluation  was requested within one to
two weeks following further rehabilitation.

Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy were asked to see
the patient on the Telemetry floor to assist in
rehabilitation and accurately assess the patient's needs for
placement.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To extended-care facility.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction.
2. Hypercarbic respiratory failure.
3. Aspiration pneumonia.
4. Acute renal failu