Admission Date: [**2172-4-19**]        Discharge Date: [**2172-5-7**]

Date of Birth:  [**2096-2-28**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


NOTE:  For admission history and physical, please previous
discharge summary dictated by the Medical Service.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 76-year-old male who
was discharged on [**4-14**] from [**Hospital6 2018**] after an admission for right hemispheric stroke,
emesis, and bloody diarrhea.  The emesis and diarrhea
resolved, and he was sent to rehabilitation.  The patient did
well for the last two days however developed daily nonbloody
bowel movements but tolerating p.o.'s until the morning when
he started vomiting, and he occasionally complained of
abdominal pain without fever noted.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Right hemispheric stroke,
hypertension, coronary artery disease, coronary artery bypass
graft 26 years ago, right carotid artery occlusion, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, 100 pack-year history of
smoking, history of gastrointestinal bleed on Coumadin, left
internal carotid artery stenosis of 79 percent, PFO by
echocardiogram with an ejection fraction of 45-50 percent and
apical akinesis.

MEDICATIONS:  Ativan 2 mg q.h.s., Aspirin 325 q.d., Atenolol
25 q.d., Lisinopril 30 q.d., Lipitor 10 q.d., Protonix 40
q.d., Iron supplements, Neurontin 300 b.i.d., Aggrenox 1 tab
b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN CAUSES RASH.

LABORATORY DATA:  The patient's white count on admission was
14.5, hematocrit 40.9, platelet count 297; the patient's
other laboratory values of significance was a BUN of 22,
creatinine 1.5; ALT 57, AST 93, alkaline phosphatase 255,
total bilirubin 1.6, amylase 920, lipase 20-25; the patient's
troponin was 0.88.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a 100 pack-year of smoking.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  The patient was
afebrile, blood pressure 193/95, respirations 16, oxygen
saturation 99 percent on room air.  General:  The patient had
slurred speech with a left facial droop.  He was difficult to
understand.  HEENT:  There was no scleral icterus.  No
jaundice.  Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.  Lungs:  Clear to
auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen:  The patient had mild
right upper quadrant tenderness.  No tympany.  No guarding.
There was no rebound.  Rectal:  No masses.  Heme negative.
Extremities:  The patient had no peripheral edema.

IMAGES:  Ultrasound on [**4-18**] showed distended thickened
gallbladder with stones and sludge, no pericholecystic fluid,
no ductal dilatation, no obvious son[**Name (NI) 493**] [**Name2 (NI) 515**] sign.

The patient was admitted to the Medical Service.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 76-year-old male with
electrocardiogram changes with apparent gallstone
pancreatitis with cholecystitis.  Given the patient's
multiple medical problems, it was felt best to conservatively
treat the patient with intravenous antibiotics and follow the
patient.  A cholecystostomy tube was considered.  This plan
was discussed with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], and the patient was
admitted to the Medical Service.  For medical admission
history and physical, please see medical dictation.

On hospital day2, the patient continued to be afebrile,
however was hypotensive with blood pressures in the 190s/80s.
The patient did have a decrease in his white count from 14 to
12 and a decrease of his BUN from 1.5 to 1.3.

The patient's examination showed no pain to deep palpation.
Follow-up of his amylase and lipase showed improvement of his
pancreatitis.

On hospital day 2, the patient was confused and tachycardiac
over night.  The patient was afebrile with a T-max of 99.8,
blood pressure 161/83.  The patient had some questionable
voluntary guarding on examination; however, it was felt that
there was some tenderness in the epigastrium.  The patient
was continued NPO with intravenous fluids.  A discussion was
held with the attending for a possible cholecystostomy tube.

The patient's white count increased from 12 to 20.1; however,
the patient's amylase and lipase were resolving to normal
levels.  The patient continued to be followed by the Surgical
Service while on the Medical Service.

The patient was seen by Neurology for evaluation of his
stroke.  Neurology recommendations were to restart the
patient's Aggrenox and Aspirin for stroke prevention,
continue statins for stroke prevention, keep hematocrit
greater than 30 percent, and to keep the patient's blood
pressure in the 150-170s.  Neurology was following the
patient through the hospital course.

On hospital day 4, the patient had some loose stools and
continued to remain afebrile with stable vital signs.  The
patient was on a clear-liquid diet.  White count was 12.9.
The patient seemed to be improving.  MRCP request was made by
the Surgical Service, and a AC-difficile was checked.  The
patient continued to have improvement of his liver function
test and amylase and lipase.

The patient was seen by Orthopedics for left shoulder pain.
Orthopedics felt an MRI to evaluate AC separation was a good
plan.  The patient continued to do well.  MRI was consistent
with AC joint separation.

The patient then had an MRCP performed which showed
gallbladder wall thickening, positive pericholecystic fluid,
no evidence of choledocholithiasis, but cholelithiasis, mild
distal dilatation of common bile duct.  The patient did have
increased abdominal pain and increased without compliant;
however, the patient's LFTs were stable, and pancreatitis had
resolved.

The plan from a surgical standpoint was for an interval
cholecystectomy to be performed at a later date; however, the
patient continued to have an elevation in white blood cell
count and amylase and lipase, and on hospital day 7, the
patient was found to have increase in abdominal pain despite
being on Levofloxacin and Flagyl and an increase in white
blood cell count to 17.4.  The patient's amylase was 1631,
and lipase was 3084.  The patient's total bilirubin was 4.5.

A gastrointestinal consult was obtained, and the patient went
for ERCP which revealed a blood clot in the common bile duct.
A sphincterotomy was performed.  Upon follow-up, the
patient's white blood cell count had increased to 21.4, and
the patient's total bilirubin was 5.9, amylase was 1014, and
lipase was [**2140**].  The patient was afebrile, and vital signs
were stable.  The patient tolerated the ERCP and seemed to do
better after ERCP.

Post ERCP, the patient required blood transfusion for a low
hematocrit.  On hospital day 8, the patient continued to
complain of some tenderness to palpation in the right lower
quadrant.  The patient was kept NPO on intravenous fluids.

On hospital day 9, the patient received another unit of
packed red blood cells for a low hematocrit.  The patient had
some guaiac positive stools which was felt to be secondary to
ERCP sphincterotomy.  Hematocrit was watched Aspirin and
antiplatelet medications were held.

The patient had resolution of white blood cell count and had
improvement of his amylase and lipase.  The patient continued
to have guaiac positive, malonic stools, which were sometimes
reported to be grossly positive.  The patient returned, on
hospital day 10, for ERCP, which identified bleeding at the
sphincterotomy site.  This bleeding was not able to be
controlled.  The patient went to angiography for embolization
of the branch of the gastroduodenal artery.

On hospital day 10, the patient's hematocrit had improved.
The patient was still complaining of right upper quadrant
pain.  The patient's white blood cell count also had
increased to 17.8.  The patient was given additional units of
cells.  The patient continued to have requirement for blood
transfusions.

On hospital day 11, the patient's T-max was 100.6 degrees.
The patient's hematocrit had dropped to 29.6, and he received
another unit of packed red blood cells for a bump to 32.2.
On patient examination, he still complained of tenderness
over the right upper quadrant.  The patient had positive
[**Doctor Last Name 515**] sign and positive right upper quadrant guarding.

The patient's laboratory values showed a white count now at
31.9, total bilirubin was 1.9 which was up 