Admission Date: [**2117-9-10**]        Discharge Date: [**2117-9-16**]

Date of Birth:  [**2041-8-18**]        Sex:  F

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 76-year-old woman with
past medical history significant for aortic stenosis and
patent foramen ovale status post atrial septal defect repair
and aortic valve replacement in [**2117-8-6**], that presents to
the emergency room with complaint of abdominal pain and
report of free intraperitoneal air on x-ray at her
rehabilitation facility, [**Hospital2 57361**] [**Hospital3 **].

Briefly, this is a 76-year-old female who has multiple
medical problems as described above, including
hypercholesterolemia, peripheral vascular disease, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, and known lung cancer, that
was recently discharged 2 days prior to [**Hospital1 57361**]
Rehabilitation facility after a lengthy  hospital course in
which she underwent an aortic valve replacement and an atrial
septal defect closure.

She was taken after this point to the surgical intensive care
unit for monitoring, however, had developed respiratory
distress that required intubation. She required tracheostomy,
as well, during this prior stay and was noted to be doing
well at the rehabilitation facility in terms of her
respiratory status up to this point. Also of note, she also
received before her prior discharge a percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy tube placed by the general surgery service. This
was done on [**2117-9-1**], seven days before discharge to the
rehabilitation facility. Of note, the patient continued to
have free intra-abdominal air during her stay in the
intensive care unit before her discharge. However, her
abdominal pain resolved, and she was able to resume her tube
feeds per recommendation of the general surgery service.

Upon discharge she was sent to the [**Hospital1 57361**] rehabilitation
facility, where she was noted to be progressing well until
her 3rd day when she noted abdominal pain. At this time a
kidney/ureter/bladder x-ray was performed that revealed
significant right- and left-sided intraperitoneal free air.
The patient was then sent back to the [**Hospital1 190**] for further evaluation and treatment.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypercholesterolemia, peripheral
vascular disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
right iliac artery disease, lung cancer, malignant
pericardial and pleural effusions, pacemaker in situ, left
carotid endarterectomy, hysterectomy, pericardial window,
tonsillectomy, mitral regurgitation, aortic stenosis, patent
foramen ovale, and coronary artery disease.

MEDICATIONS:  Amiodarone, Lipitor, Warfarin, furosemide,
lansoprazole, digoxin, aspirin, fluconazole, and vancomycin.
Vancomycin was for a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus that was growing out of her sputum prior to her
previous discharge.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Temperature 97.8 F, heart
rate 81 in sinus rhythm, blood pressure 148/71, respiratory
rate 18, 100 % on room air. She is generally comfortably
appearing and is sitting up in bed at this time. Her
tracheostomy is noted to be in place without drainage or
erythema around the site. Her lungs are clear to auscultation
bilaterally with some coarse breath sounds reported. Her
incision is noted to be well healed with Steri-Strips
beginning to slough off. There is no drainage or erythema
around the sternal wound. Her heart is in regular rate and
rhythm. Without murmurs, rubs, or gallops at this time. Her
abdomen is noted to be slightly distended with slightly
hypoactive bowel sounds. Soft. Minimally tender throughout.
No signs of rebound or guarding at this time. Her extremities
are warm and well perfused. Distal pulses are 2+ with no
clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Thus, at this time the patient was admitted
to the [**Hospital1 69**] for further
evaluation and treatment. This 75-year-old female recently
discharged with an aortic valve replacement and atrial septal
defect repair was brought back into the hospital for further
evaluation of persistent intraperitoneal free air status post
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placement on [**2117-9-1**], nine days prior to this at readmission. The
question at this point was whether there was an active leak
from the percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube.

A CAT scan was performed at this time that revealed no
extravasation, though this did not satisfy our curiosity in
regard to the possibility of anterior leak of the
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube. The patient was
noted to be stable, was afebrile, with a leukocyte count that
was within normal limits and unchanged from 5 days
previously. The plan at this time was to do a water-soluble
contrast study through this PEG tube and to assess the
patient in the prone position for possible anterior leak.

On hospital day #3 the patient began to feel better, with
less abdominal pain and less distention at this time. Patient
continued to remain afebrile and to remain hemodynamically
stable. There were no sudden rises in the leukocyte count, as
well. The rest of her laboratories was within normal limits.
We placed her PEG tube to gravity at this time with the plan
to have a prone study performed the following day, and to
continue to hold tube feeds at this time.

In addition, Clostridium difficile toxin was sent off which
came back negative. It was also notable that the patient was
passing gas and having bowel movements at this time.

On hospital day #4 the patient continued to progress well and
was noted to be comfortable and did receive 1 unit of packed
red blood cells at this time for a hematocrit of 25.6, noted
to be down from 28 the previous day.

The patient then had a follow up portable abdominal x-ray on
Tuesday, [**9-14**], hospital day #5, that continued to show
persistent large amount of free intraperitoneal air. There
was retained contrast present in the colon, but there was,
again, no sign of any sort of leak at this time. Thus,
throughout the hospital course there was, at no point, that
we could locate a definitive leak of contrast due to the
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube. It was determined
that the patient could have her tube feeds resumed.

On hospital day #5 these tube feeds were resumed, indeed, and
the patient tolerated them well and was slowly increased to
her goal rate of 50 mL per hour of ProBalance with fiber.
Also at this time, the patient received a PICC line on the
right side that was placed under interventional radiology due
to her presence of a permanent pacemaker on the left side.
The patient also had a study of the venous system in the left
upper extremity that revealed thrombosis of the left
subclavian vein. This venous catheter was removed after the
procedure and the port remained in place in the left
antebrachial area.

Then, on hospital day #6, the patient was evaluated again and
had been continued on her tube feeds at this time. She was
noted to be tolerating these well and was noticeably less
distended on examination. She was spending significant
amounts of time in her chair and was tolerating a
tracheostomy mask at this time with continued plan for her to
rest at night on the ventilator.

On hospital day #6, it was determined the patient was fit for
discharge to rehabilitation facility on continued tube feeds.
The patient was to receive 1 more week of vancomycin for
positive blood culture and yeast in sputum. The patient was
to continue on tracheostomy mask during the day as needed and
to be placed on the ventilator as needed at night so that she
could rest. Fluconazole was not given necessary upon
discharge.

ER[**Last Name (STitle) 57362**]ving any increasing pains, fevers, chills, nausea,
vomiting, shortness of breath, chest pain, redness or
drainage about the wounds, or if there are any questions or
concerns or signs of any events there untoward. Patient to
continue on continuous positive airway pressure and pressure
support for 12-14 hours a day goal and to receive assist
control at night for rest. Patient to have International
Normalized Ratio checked daily with goal of 2.0-2.5. Patient
to receive tube feedings of ProBalance full st