Admission Date:  [**2140-12-22**]     Discharge Date:  [**2140-12-30**]

Date of Birth:   [**2086-12-24**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 53-year-old male with
a past medical history significant for hypertension and
hypercholesterolemia who was transferred [**Hospital3 15175**] where he was found to be in congestive heart failure
with severe lower extremity and scrotal edema who was
transferred to the [**Hospital1 69**] on
[**12-22**] for cardiac catheterization.

A cardiac catheterization was performed at that time which
revealed a normal left main coronary artery, 99% stenosed
proximal right coronary artery, 99% stenosed mid left
anterior descending artery, normal circumflex, 85% stenosed
first obtuse marginal, and a ramus with diffuse disease.
Ejection fraction of 40%.  Mild-to-moderate diastolic
dysfunction.

The patient was subsequently referred for coronary artery
bypass graft.  An intra-aortic balloon pump was placed
successfully at that time.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history is also
significant for)
1.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
2.  Obesity.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1.  Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d.
2.  Captopril 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3.  Multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has an allergy to CODEINE.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient also has a history of tobacco
use as a teenager (smoking one pack per day) as well as a
positive history of alcohol use.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken for urgent
revascularization on [**2140-12-23**]; at which time he
underwent coronary artery bypass grafting times four with the
left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending
artery, saphenous vein graft to the distal right coronary
artery, saphenous vein graft to the second obtuse marginal,
and saphenous vein graft to the diagonal branch.

Total cardiopulmonary bypass time was 85 minutes, total
cross-clamp time was 53 minutes.  The patient was transferred
in a normal sinus rhythm in stable condition to the
Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit on milrinone 0.5 mcg/kg
per minute.

On postoperative day one, the patient still with an
intra-aortic balloon pump (1:1), afebrile, vital signs were
stable (aside from the patient being tachycardic at 110).
Still on milrinone at 0.25, and nitroglycerin at 0.75, and
propofol at 20.  White blood cell count was 10.  Hematocrit
was 29.3.  Platelet count was 204.  Blood urea nitrogen was
13.  Creatinine was 0.8.  Glucose was 124.

Physical examination revealed the patient's leg with the
intra-aortic balloon pump which was slightly modeled was
improving with warm feet and 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses.  The
plan for the patient was to wean the intra-aortic balloon
pump and to try to discontinue it and to try to wean the
milrinone, to keep the patient sedated until the intra-aortic
balloon pump is out, and then to start alcohol prophylaxis
tomorrow.  The patient was placed on an alcohol drip and
continued to be sedated on propofol with a heart rate of 101
to 104, and hematocrit was 26.6.

On postoperative day two, the patient was still on milrinone
at 0.125, nitroglycerin at 0.25, alcohol drip at 10, and an
insulin drip at 2.  The patient was afebrile.  Continued
sinus tachycardia at 100.  White blood cell count was 8.
Hematocrit was 26.4.  Blood urea nitrogen was 16.  Creatinine
was 0.8.  The plan was to continue the alcohol drip and to
wean the patient, to extubate, and to administer Lasix 40 mg
b.i.d.  The patient still with 2 to 3+ pitting edema of the
lower extremities.  The patient's alcohol drip was increased
to 15 cc due to the patient's increased restlessness.  The
patient was administered Versed 0.5 mg times two with good
effect, at which time the patient was reoriented to place and
time.  The patient with isolated premature ventricular
contractions and premature atrial contractions; occasionally
sinus tachycardia with atrial fibrillation.

On postoperative day three, 24-hour events included the
patient going into atrial fibrillation, at which time the
patient was cardioverted.  The patient was A-paced at 95,
still in atrial fibrillation, with a blood pressure of
103/60, index of 1.83, central venous pressure of 20, and
adequate urine output.  Still intubated.  Afebrile with white
blood cell count of 9.6.  Hematocrit was 28.  Blood urea
nitrogen was 19.  Creatinine was 0.8.  The patient's
intra-aortic balloon pump was discontinued two days ago.  The
patient with a Swan-Ganz catheter and following commands.
Still on an alcohol drip at 15 cc.  The patient appeared calm
and appropriate.  The patient was administered 10 mg of
intravenous of Lopressor when he went into atrial
fibrillation.  At that time, he was also loaded with 150 mg
of amiodarone and started on a drip.  He was administered
more intravenous Lopressor as well as amiodarone for
continued atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation with no
effect.  The patient's cardiac index coming down to 1.98.
The patient was then cardioverted times two with 200 joules.
The first time the patient was converted from atrial flutter
to atrial fibrillation with a rate in the 90s.  The second
time the patient was converted to sinus rhythm at 80 with
frequent premature atrial contractions.  The patient was
A-paced at 98; however, he still had some premature atrial
contractions.  The nitroglycerin was turned off.  He was on
1.5 prior to his atrial fibrillation.

On postoperative day four, 24-hour events included increased
dose of Lasix.  The patient was extubated and weaned off the
milrinone.  Nitroglycerin was eventually turned off.
Captopril as well as vancomycin were added to the patient's
daily regimen.  The patient had a positive sputum culture
from [**12-26**] with gram-positive cocci in pairs and yeast;
for which he was placed on the vancomycin.  The patient was
still being A-paced at 92.  Vital signs were stable with an
index of 2.3 and central venous pressure of 20.  The patient
was still on an alcohol drip at 15.

The patient was transferred to [**Hospital Ward Name 121**] Two on postoperative day
five, [**2140-12-28**].  He was alert and oriented times
three; however, vague at times.  He was moving all of his
extremities and following commands.  The patient denied pain.
Oxygen saturations were greater than 95% on 4 liters nasal
cannula and just under 90% on room air.  The patient's
alcohol drip was stopped and Diamox was started.  Captopril
was increased and Lopressor was changed to oral.  Lasix was
also increased over the last 24 hours.  The patient was
afebrile.  White blood cell count was 9.7.  Hematocrit was
31.3.  The patient was in sinus rhythm now at 82 with a
stable blood pressure and adequate urine output.  The patient
was still on vancomycin.

On postoperative day six, the patient underwent a bedside
swallow evaluation; at which time they stated that the
patient had no overt symptoms of aspiration at the bedside,
and swallowing appeared normal at that time with thin liquids
and regular solids.  They recommended to resume regular solid
consistency textures and thin liquids.  They stated to
consult again should signs or symptoms of aspiration begin to
develop.  The patient was alert and oriented times three with
no complaints of pain; however, on physical examination still
with right lower extremity edema with diminished breath
sounds at the bilateral bases of the lungs.  The patient was
using the incentive spirometry and voiding well.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  The patient was discharged on [**12-30**] in stable condition. The patient was discharged to home
with visiting nurse services.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 2.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq p.o. b.i.d. (times 10 days).
 3.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 5.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. (for 10 days).
 6.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 7.  Amiodarone 400 mg p.o. q.d.  (times one month).
 8.  Captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.
 9.  Thiamine 100 mg p.o. q.d.
10.  Folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d.
11.  Multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d.
12.  Ascorbic acid 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.
13.  Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. (times 10 days).
14.  Ibuprofen 400 mg p.o. q.4-6h. as needed.
