Admission Date:  [**2180-12-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2181-1-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2106-12-15**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Location (un) 259**]

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73-year-old
male with a past medical history significant for severe COPD
and severe aortic stenosis who presented on [**2180-12-7**] with
productive cough, fever, headache, and myalgias.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was treated for a COPD
exacerbation; however, he developed acute shortness of breath
and was subsequently transferred to the MICU for BIPAP.
However, the patient did not do well on BIPAP and
subsequently had to be intubated while in the MICU due to
respiratory fatigue on [**2180-12-10**].

The patient was started on IV Solu-Medrol, nebulizers, and
antibiotics for the treatment of the COPD exacerbation.  The
patient was also thought to have a CHF exacerbation
contributing to his respiratory failure.  After failure to
improve, the patient had a further workup with a bronchoscopy
and a bronchoalveolar lavage which showed growth of
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas
aeruginosa bacteria.  The patient also grew out MRSA in his
blood and urine cultures.

He was, therefore, started on treatment with vancomycin.  For
coverage of the Pseudomonas, the patient was started on
ceftazidime.  He was also started on ciprofloxacin.  The
patient had an echocardiogram done which did not show any
evidence of endocarditis.

On [**2180-12-21**], the patient was also noted to develop
mental status changes and weakness.  The Neurology Service
was consulted and the patient's weakness was attributed to
ICU myopathy.  A head CT and MRI were negative for any acute
processes.  The patient also subsequently went into atrial
flutter and was started on a heparin drip for
anticoagulation.  He was started on Lopressor for rate
control.

The patient was extubated around [**2180-12-21**] and did well
in terms of his respiratory status subsequently.  He
completed his course of ceftazidime and remained on
vancomycin for continued treatment of the MRSA infection.
His swallowing evaluation showed severe risk of aspiration
and a PEG tube was placed for feeding.  Subsequently, the
patient was discharged from the MICU and transferred to the
General Medicine [**Hospital1 **].

On the General Medicine War, the patient had a chest x-ray
done to evaluate shortness of breath and it showed free air
in the peritoneum.  This was felt most likely to be due to
air leakage around the PEG tube.  Surgery was consulted and
they tightened the PEG tube.  During the workup for free air
in the peritoneum, the patient was noted to have abnormal
LFTs.  His transaminases were elevated.  Subsequent workup of
this transaminitis showed a normal right upper quadrant
ultrasound.

The Hepatology Service was consulted for further management
and it was felt that the most likely etiology of the
patient's liver failure was ischemia and hypotension.
However, there was no clear episode of hypotension.  The
patient had further workup for evaluation of the etiology of
this liver failure including viral hepatitis serologies which
were negative.  In addition, the patient's laboratory work
showed that he was in disseminated intravascular coagulation.

An infectious etiology was sought for the DIC, however, none
was found.  The patient did receive blood products for
management of his DIC; however, there was no overt hemorrhage
as a result of the DIC.  During the rest of the hospital
admission, the patient's mental status remained poor.  He was
minimally responsive and had little to no movement in his
arms or legs.  The patient's respiratory status remained
unchanged.  He oxygenated well on a face mask.

On [**2181-1-5**], the patient was found to be in rapid
atrial flutter and subsequently telemetry showed him to be in
ventricular tachycardia.  A code blue was called and cardiac
resuscitation was attempted.  As per the family's wishes, the
patient was not intubated during this attempted
resuscitation.  Cardiac resuscitation was not successful and
the patient passed away at approximately 9:25 a.m. on [**2181-1-5**].  The family declined an autopsy.




                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 1775**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1776**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 5709**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2181-1-8**]  05:27
T:  [**2181-1-9**]  09:30
JOB#:  [**Job Number 13067**]
