Admission Date:  [**2152-7-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2152-7-30**]

Date of Birth:   [**2075-10-18**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Hypoxia.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 76-year-old man who
has had a complicated course following a lumbar laminectomy
at an outside hospital approximately 6 months ago.  The
patient developed an abscess and had a drainage subsequent to
the laminectomy and then suffered a respiratory arrest.  He
had a protracted course afterwards involving tracheostomy and
multiple episodes of pneumonia with resistant organisms,
acute renal failure.  He was discharged to a rehab facility
approximately 3 months ago and while there has had multiple
episodes of leukocytosis thought to be related to pneumonia
and to clostridium difficile infection and he has been on
various antibiotics.  A chest x-ray performed four days prior
to admission showed evidence of a left lower lobe infiltrate
and on the day of admission the patient began to have
tachypnea and decreased oxygen saturations and the patient
was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Room for further evaluation.  At the [**Hospital1 346**] Emergency Room the patient was
placed on bi-pap with moderate improvement.  Chest x-ray
showed complete opacification of the right lung.  The patient
was admitted to the medical Intensive Care Unit and
discussion with the family was initiated.  The patient was
made do not resuscitate and do not intubate.  No invasive
procedures were planned, only antibiotics and fluids were
continued.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for diabetes, laminectomy,
multiple infections which resistant organisms including VRE
MRSA, hypertension, reflux.

MEDICATIONS:  On admission included Flagyl, Ciprofloxacin,
Vancomycin, Procrit, Fentanyl, Remeron, subcu Heparin,
Allopurinol, Zoloft, Norvasc, Ritalin, Senokot, Protonix,
Dulcolax, Reglan, Rifampin and NPH insulin.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin which caused a rash.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  This is a chronically ill elderly man
in moderate respiratory distress.  Temperature 100.2, heart
rate 106, blood pressure 130/60, respiratory rate 28, oxygen
saturation 94% on 100% non rebreather mask.  Examination of
head, eyes, ear, nose and throat revealed a normal
oropharynx.  Examination of lungs revealed crackles at the
left base and decreased breath sounds with crackles
throughout the right side.  Examination of the heart revealed
regular rate and rhythm, tachycardic in rate.  Abdomen was
soft and nontender without mass.  G tube was present with
slight erythema.  Examination of extremities revealed no
edema.  Neurologic examination, the patient was arousable and
answered questions appropriately.

LABORATORY DATA:  Initial evaluation included a white count
of 26.2, hematocrit of 38, electrolytes revealed sodium of
130, potassium 5.4, chloride 95, CO2 22, BUN 57, creatinine
2.6.  Chest x-ray, as previously stated, showed right lung
entirely opacified.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the medical
Intensive Care Unit as previously stated.  The patient was
placed on DNR, DNI status and no invasive procedures were
planned.  She was kept on comfort measures and received
antibiotics and intravenous fluids.  The antibiotics were
Ceftazidime and Flagyl.  Vancomycin was not administered as
therapeutic levels were present.  The patient was treated
with sliding scale insulin for his diabetes.  The patient had
a gradually worsening respiratory status and became more
tachypneic and then had agonal respirations and subsequent
respiratory arrest at approximately 21:00 on [**7-30**].




                          [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 5837**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 8285**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 16885**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2152-7-30**]  21:13
T:  [**2152-8-1**]  19:27
JOB#:  [**Job Number 42676**]
