Admission Date:  [**2192-12-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2192-12-17**]

Date of Birth:   [**2119-4-22**]     Sex:  M

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73-year-old
male with history of atrial fibrillation, chronically
infected fistula tract in his left hip who presents with
three to four day history of fatigue, malaise, tachypnea,
anorexia, decreased po intake and watery diarrhea of six to
seven bowel movements per day.  He was in his usual state of
good health until approximately one week prior to admission
when he noted watery diarrhea without cramping, blood,
melena, however, he did complain of dry heaves and anorexia.
Two to three days prior to admission, he noted increasing
dyspnea, cough, production of yellow nonbloody sputum and
subjective fevers.  He did not document his fevers.  He
denies night sweats.  He attempted to keep up with his fluid
loss by a po intake, however, on the day of admission
complained of dry mouth and decreased urine output.

On arrival to the Emergency Room, he was hypoxic with oxygen
saturation in the mid 80% on ten liters nonrebreather.  He
was hypotensive at 70/30, however, he responded to
intravenous fluids and oxygen.  Initial electrocardiogram
showed atrial bigeminy but repeat was in sinus tachycardia.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Patient denies exertional chest pain,
melena, bright red blood per rectum, hematuria, obstructive
voiding symptoms.  Denies recent increase in drainage of his
left hip sinus.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for hypertension, basal
cell carcinoma of his right anterior shin, atrial
fibrillation, motor vehicle accident in [**2140**], complicated by
left hip fracture, status post rod placement, chronic
methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus infection on
suppressive dicloxacillin.  Last documented in [**2186**] to be
methicillin sensitive Staph aureus.  [**2189**] echocardiogram
showed mild left atrial enlargement, ejection fraction
greater than 55%, mild aortic regurgitation, mild mitral
regurgitation, normal pulmonary artery pressures,
hypercholesterolemia and status post appendectomy.

MEDICATIONS:  He is on Coumadin, trandolapril 1 mg,
amiodarone 200 q.d. and prn Viagra.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Quit tobacco ten years ago.  Two or more
packs a day.  Lives with his wife in [**Name (NI) **].  He is a
publisher.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vitals:  Temperature maximum 99.7.
Pulse 146 decreased to 120 after fluid resuscitation.  Blood
pressure 127/52, after fluid bolus breathing 25, saturating
92-93% on ten liters.  In general, he is tachypneic on
nonrebreather.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat showed
pupils equal, round and reactive to light and accommodations.
Extraocular muscles were intact.  Sclerae are anicteric.
Oropharynx clear without lesions.  Mucous membranes were dry.
Neck was supple.  There was no lymphadenopathy, 8 cm jugular
venous distention.  Lungs:  Left lung showed rhonchus breath
sounds, but good air movement.  Right lung decreased breath
sounds at the bottom one half of lung fields.  Positive E-A
changes at right base.  Heart was normal S1, S2, distant
heart sounds.  Abdomen was obese, soft, nontender,
nondistended.  Extremities showed no edema and cyanosis.
Distal pulses were 2+ bilaterally.  Left hip fistula drainage
tract was draining serosanguinous fluid.  There was no odor,
no pus, no erythema.  Neurological exam was nonfocal.

LABORATORIES:  White blood cell count of 15.1 with 31%
neutrophils, 51% bands, 5% lymphocytes, 6% monocytes.
Hematocrit of 45.3, MCV of 94, platelets of 740,000.  PT of
21.6, PTT of 40.7, INR of 3.3.  Sodium 137, potassium 4.3,
chloride 99, bicarbonate 19, BUN 33, creatinine 1.8, baseline
creatinine 0.9, glucose 208, acetone was negative, legionella
urinary antigen was negative.  Urinalysis was amber, cloudy
1.030, small blood, greater than 32 protein, small bilirubin,
urobilinogen was 1.0 with no cells.  Arterial blood gases
were 7.34, pCO2 of 38, PA02 of 60, bicarbonate 21, lactate
was 2.2.

First electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 108, left
axis deviation, QRS at .144, poor R wave progression,
persistent S in V6, T wave inversion in V2, V3. Nonspecific
intraventricular conduction delay.

Chest x-ray showed large right lower lobe infiltrate with
volume loss, small pleural effusion on right.  Patchy
infiltrates in the left lower lobe, however, could still see
the left hemidiaphragm.

This 73-year-old male was admitted to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit with severe community acquired pneumonia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  By systems:

1.  Hematology:  The patient was noted to be in mild DIC as
evidenced by elevated PTT on admission, however, his
platelets were fine.  There was no evidence of consumptive
coagulopathy.  Coumadin was held.  PTT normalized over the
course of stay.

2.  Pulmonary:  Patient with tobacco history and severe
community acquired pneumonia.  Sputum cultures were
repeatedly sent which did not grow out a predominance of any
specific respiratory pathogen.  Early on the morning of his
third hospital stay, he desaturated to the 80s and then began
to fatigue with arterial blood gases of 7.23, 61, 64.  He was
intubated and sedated at that point.  His chest x-ray was
unchanged.  His small right side effusion was tapped which
was shown to be exudative with a pH of 7.35, 2.6 grams of
total protein, 112 glucose, 279 LDH.  Serum LDH at that time
was 180.  Had 5,750 white blood cells with 64% polys, 3%
bands, 30% lymphocytes, 3% monocytes, 35,750 red blood cells.
Gram stain was unrevealing.  Patient, on the following day,
patient was stable on the ventilator, still requiring
mechanical ventilation.  Chest x-ray unchanged.  A
bronchoscopy was performed which showed normal airways,
sputum in the right lower lobe and right middle lobe.  BAL
was negative for acid fast bacilli, PCP, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] [**Name Initial (NameIs) **], [**Name Initial (NameIs) **] and
RSV.  There was positive [**Female First Name (un) **].  Gram stain showed 2+
polys, 1+ squamous cells, 1+ oropharyngeal flora.  On the
fifth hospital day, the patient required increased FIO2 to
90% to maintain oxygenation.  At this point, there was some
concern given his low P-F ratio, that he had possibly
progressed to acute lung injury and/or adult respiratory
distress syndrome, however, it was likely he remained just
with significant community acquired pneumonia.  On the fifth
hospital day, Infectious Disease consult recommended a CT to
evaluate further for processes as he remained without
microbiological diagnosis.  This showed extensive alveolar
consolidation involving nearly the entire right lung and to a
lesser degree the left lower lobe.  Heterogeneous enhancement
attenuation suggested necrotizing pneumonia, though, no
abscesses are evident at this time.  Multiple predominantly
ill-defined nodules throughout the remaining irradiated lobes
most likely areas of early consolidation, however, follow-up
CT after appropriate antibiotic therapy and serial chest
x-ray are recommended to exclude true lung nodules.  2.
Parapneumonic effusion, small on the left, moderate on the
right.  3.  Pleural calcification on the left lower
hemithorax and tiny right posterior pleural calcification,
question of history of asbestosis exposure, right adrenal
lesion measuring 2 cm, possibly an adenoma.  Recommended
follow-up MRI.

Patient was again bronched on the fifth hospital day which
showed edematous airway.  Culture data was still unrevealing
at this point, and so on the 19th, the sixth hospital day,
the patient underwent open lung biopsy.  Preliminary frozen
section was likely to be infectious etiology versus
malignancy, however, on the seventh hospital day the
pathology came back showing definite adenocarcinoma, as well
as alveoli polymorphonucleocytes, lymphocytes and atypical
cells.

2.  Infectious Disease:  The patient was started on
vancomycin and levofloxacin for community acquired pneumonia
and concern that it was colonized to the Methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus given his chronic
methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus infection and
suppressive dicloxacillin.  Despite two bronchoscopies with
BAL a