Admission Date:                   Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:  [**2111-6-19**]        Sex:  M

Service:  ORT


PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:  Need for enteral nutrition and
prolonged dysphagia.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:  Need for enteral nutrition and
prolonged dysphagia.

PROCEDURE:  Upper endoscopy and percutaneous endoscopic
gastrostomy tube.

ASSISTANT:  [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 401**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 65332**], MD.

ANESTHESIA:  General endotracheal anesthesia.

INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:  The patient is a 70 year-old
gentleman with multiple issues status post a cervical fusion
with multiple failures of swallowing studies. He now presents
for PEG after risks and benefits were explained.

DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:  The patient was taken to the
operating room. General anesthesia was administered by our
anesthesia department without difficulty.  The C spine collar
was left in place. An endoscope was introduced into the
esophagus under direct visualization.  The stomach was
inspected. There was no evidence of any gastritis and the
entire stomach appeared normal. The scope was not
retroflexed.  We then proceeded to palpate underneath the
left subcostal area and were actually able to visualize this
endoscopically. We then proceeded to transilluminate and were
able to see it completely. Therefore, we were ensured that
this was indeed in the stomach. We then proceeded to place
our needle through the stomach under direct vision, past the
snare down the endoscope, past the blue wire, through the
catheter and then snared the blue wire, brought this up
through the mouth, wrapped the 20 French PEG around this and
then proceeded to pull it from the stomach wall down.  This
came up through the anterior abdominal wall without
difficulty.  The skin was opened to approximately 1 cm to
accommodate the PEG.  The PEG itself was located at 3 cm.  I
then performed a repeat endoscopy to confirm position. There
was no undue bleeding.  We then secured the PEG at 3 cm
without undue tension.  It was then covered in a dry sterile
dressing.  The plan is for drainage today and then slow feeds
starting tomorrow if tolerated.  He was extubated without
difficulty and he tolerated the procedure without any
problems.



                        [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 6633**], M.D. [**MD Number(2) 12418**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 65333**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2182-3-1**] 16:40:15
T:  [**2182-3-1**] 17:02:36
Job#:  [**Job Number 65334**]
