Admission Date:  [**2127-1-6**]     Discharge Date:  [**2127-1-21**]


Service:  Neurosurgery

NOTE:  THIS IS ALSO PATIENT'S DEATH SUMMARY.  Patient was
declared deceased on [**1-21**] at 4:30 p.m.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 88-year-old Greek
speaking white male with history of coronary artery disease,
status post coronary artery bypass graft times two in [**2123**]
with a placement of a pacemaker at that time and an ejection
fraction of 60%, history of hypertension, status post
syncopal episodes and fall on [**1-4**] with positive loss
of consciousness times ten minutes, who was found to have a
PE at that time and ruled out for myocardial infarction at
that time.  He was started on heparin drips on the evening of
[**1-4**] and had a normal neurological exam at that time,
however, at 11 a.m. on [**1-5**], he was noted to be
ambulating with a right-sided weakness.  A CT scan of the
head showed a large subarachnoid hemorrhage with parenchymal
hemorrhage and the heparin drops were discontinued and the
patient was given four units of FFP and Vitamin K 10 mg
subcutaneously times one.  At 4 p.m., the patient was noted
to have decreased responsiveness with tongue deviated to the
left, right pupil more sluggish than the left and not opening
his eyes spontaneously.  Repeat CT scan at 10 p.m. showed
increased hemorrhage and hydrocephalus and the patient was
intubated prior to transfer from an outside hospital to the
[**Hospital1 **] Hospital.

MEDICATIONS AT TIME OF ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Accupril,
Atenolol, Zoloft, Lasix, multivitamins, Colace and Dilantin.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  He had a previous medical history of
coronary artery disease, a gastrointestinal bleed,
hypertension and depression.

ALLERGIES:  He had no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  History of past cigarette smoking, one pack
per day, no history of alcohol intake and was currently
married and had a supportive family.  A head CT done urgently
at the time of admission showed a large subarachnoid
hemorrhage with interventricular clot and extension into the
right thalamus with sylvian fissure blood and the ventricles
were markedly enlarged.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On exam, the patient's blood pressures
were 180/59 to 93/46.  He was receiving Nipride to control
the blood pressure.  His heart rate was 60 and paced with his
indwelling pacemaker.  The patient's respiratory rate was 14
on a ventilator at 100% 02 saturation.  He was intubated.
There was no spontaneous eye opening and there was a positive
gag.  Pupils were equal, 2 mm and sluggishly reactive.  There
was slight spontaneous movements of the bilateral legs, but
no spontaneous movement of the upper extremities.  The right
leg externally was rotated, left greater than right, and he
withdrawals to nailbed pressure of the bilateral extremities
and the toes were bilateral upgoing.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Due to the clinical findings, the patient
was admitted to the hospital and underwent urgent placement
of a ventricular drain.  Patient tolerated the procedure well
and was admitted to the Neursurgical Intensive Care Unit.
Unfortunately, the patient's comatose condition did not
change.  He remained comatose and decerebrated on the right
with withdrawal on the left and the toes bilaterally were
upgoing.

After discussion with the family, it was decided not to place
a cable filter for the DVT and not do a cerebral angiogram
for identification of the source of bleeding.  Therefore, the
family agreed to make the patient "Do Not Resuscitate" and
plan was to continue current therapy for at least 72 hours
and if no improvements, then discuss withdrawal of care.  The
patient's clinical condition did not improve over the next
several days and on the [**1-13**] with the patient's
condition stabilized and his ICP intercerebral pressure
stabilized, his ventricular drain was removed and the patient
was moved from the Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit to the
regular hospital floor.

The patient's clinical condition continued to remain stable
as comatose and essentially all but unresponsive and after
several discussions with the family, it was decided on the
[**12-23**], that the patient would be made comfort measures
only and therefore comfort measures were begun and the
patient expired on the [**2127-1-21**] at 4:30 p.m.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Deceased.


                          [**Name6 (MD) 6911**] [**Name8 (MD) **], MD  [**MD Number(1) 6913**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 7311**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2127-5-1**]  10:20
T:  [**2127-5-1**]  10:20
JOB#:  [**Job Number 37993**]
