Admission Date:  [**2196-11-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2196-11-22**]

Date of Birth:   [**2124-6-9**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72-year-old
female with a past medical history significant for coronary
artery disease (status post coronary artery bypass graft in
[**2184**] with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending artery, saphenous vein graft to the first obtuse
marginal, saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending
artery), status post cardiac catheterization in [**2196-6-27**]
with stenting of the left main, left circumflex, and second
obtuse marginal, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, and recent upper
gastrointestinal bleed who was admitted for elective cardiac
catheterization.

The patient is status post a recent cardiac catheterization
in [**2196-6-27**] with a hospital course complicated by post
catheterization anemia and esophagogastroduodenoscopy
demonstrating gastritis and three nonbleeding ulcers.  At
that time, the patient was treated with 5 units of packed red
blood cells, epinephrine injection, and high-dose proton pump
inhibitor.

The patient is now referred for a repeat cardiac
catheterization on [**11-16**] following a positive nuclear
stress test on preoperative workup for knee surgery.  The
patient underwent a nuclear stress test demonstrating a
reversible lateral defect with an ejection fraction of 45%.

The patient denies recent or current chest pain, orthopnea,
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, dyspnea on exertion, as well as
angina.  The patient also denies recent or current melena and
bright red blood per rectum.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Coronary artery disease; status post 3-vessel coronary
artery bypass graft in [**2184**]; status post cardiac
catheterization in [**2190**] with evidence of 3-vessel disease
with an ejection fraction of 67%, and patent grafts, status
post cardiac catheterization in [**2196-5-28**] demonstrating
70% to 80% occlusion of the left anterior descending artery,
60% of the left main artery, 80% of the left circumflex
artery, 60% of the second obtuse marginal, 60% occlusion of
the ostial second diagonal, diffusely diseased right coronary
artery with a mid total occlusion and 60% proximal occlusion,
a total occlusion of the saphenous vein graft to second
obtuse marginal, a 20% to 30% occlusion of the saphenous vein
graft to posterior descending artery, and patent graft of the
left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending
artery.  The cardiac catheterization was aborted prior to
stent placement secondary to acute hypotension and left groin
hematoma during the catheterization.  A subsequent abdominal
CAT scan was without evidence of retroperitoneal bleed.  The
patient is status post cardiac catheterization in [**2196-5-28**] demonstrating 80% occlusion of the left main artery,
total occlusion of the left anterior descending artery, 80%
occlusion of the mid left circumflex artery, and 90%
occlusion of the second obtuse marginal branch.  The patient
underwent stent placement in the left main artery, mid left
circumflex, as well as second obtuse marginal branch.
 2.  Upper gastrointestinal bleed in [**2196-6-27**]; status
post cardiac catheterization (details above).
 3.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (on home oxygen).
 4.  Hypertension.
 5.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
 6.  History of small cell lung cancer; status post
chemotherapy and radiation therapy approximately eight years
ago.
 7.  Hypothyroidism.
 8.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus.
 9.  Parkinson disease.
10.  Alzheimer's dementia.
11.  History of colon cancer; status post resection
approximately two years ago.
12.  Morbid obesity.
13.  Gastroparesis.
14.  Status post total abdominal hysterectomy.
15.  Status post appendectomy.
16.  Chronic anemia (with a baseline hematocrit of 34 to 35).

ALLERGIES:  Allergies include CODEINE and AMBIEN.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Synthroid 125 mcg p.o. q.d.
 2.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
 3.  Amiodarone 100 mg p.o. q.d.
 4.  Prednisone 7.5 mg p.o. q.d.
 5.  Glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d.
 6.  Reglan 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.
 7.  Cogentin 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 8.  K-Dur 20 mEq p.o. q.d.
 9.  Naprosyn 500 mg p.o. q.d.
10.  Zestril 5 mg p.o. q.d.
11.  OxyContin 2 mg p.o. b.i.d.
12.  Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and lives with her
husband.  The patient reports a remote tobacco history of
approximately a 20-year duration.  The patient denies alcohol
as well as intravenous drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history was noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed temperature was 97.7, heart rate was
87, blood pressure was 117/48, respiratory rate was 11,
oxygen saturation was 96% on room air.  In general, the
patient was an obese elderly female in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination revealed
normocephalic and atraumatic.  Sclerae were anicteric.
Pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light and
accommodation.  Extraocular movements were intact
bilaterally.  Mucous membranes were moist.  Edentulous.  The
oropharynx was clear.  Neck examination revealed supple, with
no jugular venous distention, and no lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm
with a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal
border with no third heart sound or fourth heart sound
appreciated.  Pulmonary examination was clear to auscultation
bilaterally with no wheezes, rhonchi, or rales.  Abdominal
examination revealed soft, obese, normal active bowel sounds
nontender, and nondistended.  No hepatosplenomegaly was
appreciated.  Extremity examination revealed 2+ nonpitting
edema with 2+ dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis pulses
bilaterally.  No clubbing or cyanosis.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Pertinent
laboratories and studies during the hospitalization revealed
the patient's admission hematocrit was 31.1.  On transfer to
the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit on hospital day three,
the patient had a complete blood count with a white blood
cell count of 7.4, hematocrit was 22.3, mean cell volume was
84, and platelets were 190.  The patient's Chemistry-7
revealed sodium was 138, potassium was 4, chloride was 103,
bicarbonate was 23, blood urea nitrogen was 29, creatinine
was 0.8, and blood glucose was 83.  Calcium was 8, magnesium
was 1.6, and phosphate was 2.6.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient underwent a two-step cardiac
catheterization on hospital day one.

The patient's cardiac catheterization revealed 20% left main
artery in-stent restenosis, total occlusion of the stented
left circumflex, serial 60% and 80% stenoses of the saphenous
vein graft to the posterior descending artery with a patent
left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior
descending artery.  The cardiac catheterization also
demonstrated normal filling pressures.  The patient underwent
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the left
circumflex followed by left circumflex brachy therapy.

The patient underwent a second stage cardiac catheterization
on hospital day two with stenting of the saphenous vein graft
to the right coronary artery with good results.  The second
stage cardiac catheterization also revealed 70% elastic
recoil of the left circumflex without intervention.

The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was uneventful until the
morning on hospital day three when the patient complained of
nausea, orthostatic symptoms, and mild shortness of breath.
The patient was found with a systolic blood pressure in the
80s, heart rate was in the 90s, with a hematocrit of 21.3
(down from 30.3 the night prior).  There was no evidence of
melena, bright red blood per rectum, groin hematoma, or signs
of external bleeding.

The patient was transferred to the Cardiothoracic Intensive
Care Unit for evaluation and management.  The patient's
Integrilin was discontinued at this time, and the patient was
continued on aspirin and Plavix for recent stenting of the
coronary arteries.  The patient was bolused with intravenous
fluids with sustained blood pressures in the r