Admission Date: [**2158-11-22**]        Discharge Date: [**2158-12-11**]

Date of Birth:  [**2123-7-8**]        Sex:  M

Service:  [**Last Name (un) **]


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 35 year old male who
presented to [**Location (un) 8973**] Hospital on [**2158-11-22**] with a
five day history of slowly worsening abdominal pain,
periumbilical followed by nausea and bilious emesis.  The
nausea and vomiting relieved his pain.  He was diagnosed with
an incarcerated hernia at [**Location (un) 8973**] Hospital.  He denies any
fever, chills and any shortness of breath but does admit to
occasional palpitations, no chest pains.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  His past medical history includes
hypertension, pulmonary hypertension, cellulitis, asthma and
a questionable history of arrhythmia.

MEDICATIONS:  His medications include Lasix 40 mg
intravenously started p.o. q. 6, lisinopril 40 p.o. q. day.

ALLERGIES:  He has no allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He did admit to a smoking history.  No
alcohol and some marijuana usage.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On presentation to our hospital, [**Hospital6 1760**], he was afebrile with vital
signs 98.8, 94, 152/102, 20 and 99 on room air.  This
pleasant, in no acute distress but obese, gentleman had a
soft obese but tender abdomen, decreased bowel sounds, no
rebound and some minimal guarding on presentation.  There was
erythema and warmth over the umbilical hernia.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to the Operating Room
on [**2158-11-10**], for an incarcerated umbilical hernia and
underwent a small bowel resection and repair of umbilical
hernia with mesh.  Please see operative note for further
information.

Postoperatively the patient was admitted to the Intensive
Care Unit for airway management and slowly progressed
postoperatively.  Postoperatively the patient underwent a
trach for airway protection, teaching and perioperative
antibiotics, and did occasionally require some fluid boluses
for further resuscitation.  The patient had a right internal
jugular line placed on [**11-23**], due to insufficient
intravenous access.  A #8 fenestrated trach was placed on
[**11-23**], without any difficulty.  The patient was taken
off of Levophed on [**11-24**], but was continued on
levofloxacin and Flagyl and continued to require intermittent
fluid resuscitation, but slowly progressed each day.  The
patient unfortunately failed his trach mask on [**11-23**],
and underwent another trial on [**11-24**].  On [**Holiday **] Day
he began to tolerate some trach collar about 6 liters with an
arterial blood gas with 227.34, 58, 150, 33/4.  The
antibiotics were continued for an additional seven days for
the potential thought of some bacterial translocation with
the infected bowel that was seen in the Operating Room.  On
[**11-27**], the patient had his nasogastric tube removed and
had a few sips.  Speech therapy was consulted.  The patient
had a large amount of bilious emesis on [**11-27**], after he
had some apple and cranberry juice and milk.  The patient's
was immediately made NPO and continued on intravenous fluids
and monitored over night.  On the evening of [**11-28**], the
patient had green fluid in the vacuum-assisted closure
section  and complained of some abdominal pain.  The patient
was seen by the surgical resident.  The patient was found to
have a soft, nontender, nonguarding abdomen with some bilious
ascetic fluid soaking through the vacuum-assisted closure
sponge.  The vacuum-assisted closure sponge was removed by
the surgical resident and suction was applied.  Evacuation of
pus and 200 cc of fluid was removed.  The wound was probed
and no bowel was palpated.  The fascial mesh closure was
intact.  There was no bleeding and no purulent material was
further evacuated from the area.  The impression at that time
was that this would be a superficial wound and evidence of a
possible anastomotic leak and/or a potential enteric fistula.
The patient was hemodynamically stable and had no evidence of
any septic behavior at this time.  The patient remained on
NPO, his intravenous fluids were increased and complete blood
count and electrolytes were obtained.  The patient's episode
was discussed with the surgical fellow as well as with the
surgical attending at that time.  The patient was closely
monitored.

The patient began to become tachycardiac when compared to his
previous days in the hospital and had no other overt signs of
sepsis, but given his difficult habitus it was best to
explore him.  He was taken to the Operating Room.  Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) **] performed the procedure for exploration, possible
bowel resection, possible G-tube and/or possible delayed
closure.  The patient underwent re-exploration as well as
small bowel resection with primary anastomosis with SAS mesh
on [**2158-11-29**].  Please see operative note for further
information.  During that second surgery, the patient was
found to have an anastomotic leak with enterocutaneous
fistula.  Postoperatively the patient was readmitted to the
Intensive Care Unit and monitored for need for further
surgery and his body habitus and close monitoring that would
be needed.  The patient was started on total parenteral
nutrition during this time and was slowly progressed.  He did
require once again some additional fluid boluses, but
maintained a relatively good urine output.  It was thought
that the intravenous fluid bolus was likely secondary to some
third spacing that was occurring, but otherwise the patient
was doing well.  The patient once again underwent a trial of
trach collar and was slowly weaned off the vent and kept on a
trach collar due to his poor pulmonary status and his failed
awakening after the first surgery.  The patient was started
on some liquids on [**2158-12-6**], after being slowly
removed from the vent.  Over the next few days the patient
continued to progress with a vacuum-assisted closure in
place.  The Foley catheter was removed and the process of
rehabilitation screening was initiated.  The patient was
continued on Vancomycin, levofloxacin and Flagyl which had
been started after the second operation, after which the
antibiotics were stopped.  The patient was tolerating a
regular diet, after having underwent a swallow evaluation.
The patient is aware of the intention and value of
rehabilitation and is in agreement.  He did a couple of days
prior to discharge complain of some frequent stools.
Clostridium difficile was sent prior to discharge and
returned as being negative.

The patient otherwise is in good condition with stable vital
signs and an afebrile condition.  His mid abdominal wound has
a mid to large vacuum-assisted closure dressing in place
which has improved from the initial vacuum-assisted closure
placement.  His heart is regular rate and rhythm.  His chest
is clear to auscultation bilaterally.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To an acute rehabilitation center.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient is to follow up as
directed.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1. Exploratory laparotomy, small bowel resection and
   umbilical hernia repair on [**2158-11-22**] secondary to
   an incarcerated ventral hernia.
2. Status post re-exploration, small bowel resection, primary
   anastomosis with SAS mesh on [**2158-11-29**].
3. Obesity.
4. Hypertension.
5. Pulmonary hypertension.
6. Asthma.
7. Leg cellulitis.
8. Status post laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
9. Status post tonsillectomy.




                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], [**MD Number(1) 13137**]

Dictated By:[**Doctor Last Name 31967**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2158-12-11**] 12:16:03
T:  [**2158-12-11**] 13:35:47
Job#:  [**Job Number 60067**]
