Admission Date:  [**2158-1-24**]     Discharge Date:  [**2158-1-29**]

Date of Birth:   [**2103-3-7**]     Sex:  M

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 54-year-old male
with a history of Hodgkin's lymphoma, coronary artery
disease, status post percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty times two, hypertension, dyslipidema, prostate
cancer, status post 11 cycles of ABVD for his Hodgkin's
lymphoma including 330 mg of bleomycin.  Patient hospitalized
at an outside hospital from [**Date range (1) 17815**] with increasing
shortness of breath with a CAT scan that was consistent with
increasing subpleural reticular nodular densities consistent
with bleomycin lung with an ESR of 188, negative LENIs and
negative micro.  Patient was started on prednisone and
levofloxacin and sent home.

Patient returned to an outside hospital on the second of
[**Month (only) 404**] for an x-ray, but had a syncopal episode at that
time.  Had a negative CT angio for PE, an echocardiogram that
was normal, and cardiac enzymes that were negative.  Also had
acid fast bacilli and PAS stains.  Ultimately, the patient
came to the [**Hospital6 256**] and at that
time was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit because
of worsening hypoxia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hodgkin's lymphoma, coronary artery
disease, prostate cancer.

ALLERGIES:  Patient not allergic to any medications.

OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS:  Prednisone and levofloxacin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Not applicable.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Not applicable.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, patient had a
temperature of 96.4.  Heart rate of 75.  Blood pressure of
123/75, breathing at 18, and 93% on a nonrebreather.  Patient
was a pleasant interactive male in respiratory distress after
speaking.  He was normocephalic, atraumatic.  His heart was
regular.  He had no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  He had a right
Permacath.  Lungs:  He had rhonchi and rales bilaterally. The
patient also had in place a right-sided chest tube for
pneumothorax caused at an outside hospital with a central
line placement.  Abdomen:  Benign.  Extremities:  No edema.
Pulses:  2+ dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial.  Alert and
oriented times three.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient had a very complicated hospital
course with multiple interventions attempted at trying to
improve his breathing, including initiation of Colchicine and
pentoxifylline.  CT Surgery was also asked to evaluate the
patient.  Ultimately, to follow the chest tube.  The patient
had a chest tube removed, but then re-accumulated a
pneumothorax.  Throughout his hospital course, the patient
continued to become increasingly hypoxic.  He was given
Remicade times one as a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
effort to try to improve his bleomycin lung.  He was started
on N-acetylcystine as well.  All of which did not really
change his hospital course.  Ultimately, the patient passed
away on the [**2158-1-29**] after a code during which
after CPR, epi, amp of bicarbonate and defibrillation, there
was no sign of life.

CONDITION OF DISCHARGE:  Patient passed away.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Deceased.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Bleomycin lung.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 1569**] [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 15074**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 24764**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2158-7-3**]  19:02
T:  [**2158-7-3**]  19:02
JOB#:  [**Job Number 37390**]
