Admission Date:  [**2169-12-30**]     Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2136-10-31**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 33-year-old female
with a history of obesity, developmental delay, seizure
disorder, depression, and ventricular septal defect who
presented with a chief complaint of shortness of breath to
the [**Hospital1 69**] Emergency Department
on [**12-30**] after being initially evaluated at [**Hospital3 1442**] Hospital.

The patient's symptoms began on [**12-25**] with five days of
cough, temperatures to 101 Fahrenheit, shortness of breath,
and wheezing.  She went to her primary care physician three
days prior to admission where the temperature was measured at
102.2 Fahrenheit, and after chest x-ray was negative for
infiltrate she was diagnosed with bronchitis and treated with
Bactrim-DS.  She took this for three days, but on the day of
admission the patient was found a home health aide to be
increasingly short of breath, and the patient was taken to
[**Hospital3 1443**] Hospital where she was satting 92% on 4
liters nasal cannula.  A chest x-ray showed right lower lobe
infiltrate.  The patient was given 125 mg of Solu-Medrol,
nebulizers, ceftriaxone 1 g and transferred to the [**Hospital1 1444**] where she was admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.

There, the patient was found to be 87% on 4 liters nasal
cannula which improved to 93% on 100% face mask.  The
patient's saturations fell to 90% on 100% face mask and BiPAP
14/4 was tried.  However, the patient did not tolerate the
BiPAP well despite the fact that the saturations came back to
approximately 95%.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  On review of systems the patient has no
history of asthma but is a heavy smoker at two to three packs
per day for many years.  Her membranous ventricular septal
defect was diagnosed on cardiac echocardiogram performed in
[**2164**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Obesity.
2.  Developmental delay.
3.  Seizure disorder, status post motor vehicle accident.
4.  Depression.
5.  Ventricular septal defect.
6.  Auditory hallucinations.
7.  Melanoma on chest, status post excision.

ALLERGIES:  RISPERIDONE causing nausea.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Outpatient medications include
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Dilantin 300 mg p.o. q.a.m. and
400 mg p.o. q.p.m., Lactase 3 tablets p.o. t.i.d. with meals,
lorazepam 0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n., perphenazine 4 mg p.o.
t.i.d., venlafaxine 150 mg p.o. q.d., Zyprexa 10 mg p.o.
t.i.d., Bactrim-DS since [**12-27**], Senna.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  A two to three pack per day smoker.  Lives
alone with home health services and advocate.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Breast cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Temperature 99.2
Fahrenheit, heart rate 110, blood pressure 140s/50s,
respirations 28 to 36, oxygen saturation 93% on 100% face
mask.  In general, alert, lying in bed, obese, in moderate
respiratory distress.  Head, ears, nose, eyes and throat
revealed mucous membranes were moist.  No lymphadenopathy.
Heart was tachycardic but regular.  No murmurs, rubs or
gallops.  Pulmonary revealed diffuse rhonchi, right greater
than left, prolonged expiratory phase with wheezing
diffusely.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended,
with normal active bowel sounds.  Extremities had no edema,
no palpable cords, 2+ bilateral peripheral pulses.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell count 8.3,
hematocrit 34.3, platelets 176, mean cell volume 88.
Coagulations were INR 1.3, PTT 26.3, PT 13.5.  Chem-7 as
follows: Sodium of 134, potassium 3.3, chloride 96,
bicarbonate 25, blood urea nitrogen 7, creatinine 0.6, with a
glucose of 144.  AST 28, ALT 31, alkaline phosphatase 207,
total bilirubin 0.2.  Urinalysis was nitrite negative, 6 to
10 red blood cells, 0 white blood cells, and rare bacteria.
Arterial blood gas on 100% face mask was pH of 7.46, CO2 39,
O2 56.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Chest x-ray revealed questions of right
lower lobe infiltrate.

Electrocardiogram from outside hospital with normal sinus
rhythm at 110.  No ST-T wave segment changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  PULMONARY:  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit where she was found to wheezing, probably
secondary to bronchospasm.  Her saturations fell to 90% on
100% face mask.  At this point arterial blood gas was sent
revealing 7.46/39/56.

The patient was started on BiPAP; however, she did not
tolerated secondary to discomfort even though her saturations
increased to approximately 95%.  She was treated with
Solu-Medrol 60 mg intravenously q.6h., albuterol nebulizers,
and given ceftriaxone 1 g, followed by azithromycin 500 mg
times one.  At this point the patient's shortness of breath
was subjectively improved, and the patient was transferred to
the floor with an oxygen saturation of 92% to 95% on 100%
nonrebreather.

On the floor the patient's hypoxemia was thought to be
secondary to viral etiology supported by the fact that she
had only one day of sputum which cleared rapidly, either
bronchospasm secondary to acute bronchitis, or viral-induced
asthma seemed to have developed.  The patient was maintained
on azithromycin 250 mg times four days to complete the course
and also continued initially on Solu-Medrol 60 mg q.6h.
Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers were continued.  An
echocardiogram with bubble study was performed to determine
whether the patient had hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction
resulting in reversal of her ventricular septal defect and
thereby increasing her oxygen requirement, but this study was
negative for ventricular septal defect. Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1445**] from
Cardiology read the echocardiogram and felt that the
ventricular septal defect had either closed completely or was
too small to be functionally significant.

On [**1-2**] Solu-Medrol was replaced with prednisone 60 mg
p.o. q.d. and Flovent 2 puffs b.i.d. for loading purposes.
Albuterol and Atrovent inhalers were started for beta agonist
and anticholinergic activity, and the patient was taught in
their use.  Her oxygen saturation stabilized to the point
where she was 92% to 94% on room air, peak flows increased
from 150 to the 250 to the 350 range.  Physical Therapy saw
the patient, and the patient was able to walk well with an
oxygen saturation going into the 89% to 92% on room air.  At
this point it was agreed she was ready for discharge.

It was recommended that influenza vaccine be considered in
this patient once she has recovered completely from her acute
illness to prevent further episodes.  Further use of peak
flow monitoring and an initial set of pulmonary function
tests would be useful as well; particularly if the patient
does well and pulmonary function tests show minimal
obstructive disease, treatment of her bronchospasm may need
to be modified.

2.  GASTROINTESTINAL:  The patient was initially n.p.o.
except medications, but her diet was advanced as tolerated.

3.  PSYCHIATRY:  Perphenazine, Zyprexa, and venlafaxine were
continued.  The patient reported no hallucinations or signs
of depression in house.

4.  NEUROLOGY:  Dilantin level was high at 22.4 on admission.
On [**1-2**] it was rechecked and found to be 20.4.  It was
held for the duration of her stay.  No seizure activity was
noted in house.

5.  ACCESS:  Peripheral IV.

6.  PROPHYLAXIS:  Protonix, Pneumo boots, encouragement out
of bed to chair, physical therapy.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home with services and physical
therapy.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Prednisone taper 40 mg p.o. q.d. times three days;
then 20 mg p.o. q.d. times three days; then 10 mg p.o. q.d.
times three days; then 5 mg p.o. q.d. times three days; then
off.
 2.  Albuterol inhaler 2 puffs to 4 puffs q.i.d.
 3.  Atrovent inhaler 2 puffs to 4 puffs q.i.d.
 4.  Flovent inhaler 2 puffs b.i.d.
 5.  Dilantin 300 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 400 mg p.o. q.p.m.
 6.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 7.  Perphenazine 4 mg p.o. t.i.d.
 8.  Venlafaxine 150 mg p.o. q.d.
 9.  Zyprexa 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.
10.  Lactase 3 tablets p.o. t.i.d. with meals.
11.  Lorazepam 0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n.
12.  Senna.

DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP:   The patient was to follow up with
primary c