Admission Date:  [**2153-8-28**]       Discharge Date:  [**2153-9-12**]


Service:
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84 year-old
male with a history of coronary artery disease, status post
coronary artery bypass graft, hyperlipidemia, diabetes who
presents with difficulty speaking one night prior to
admission.  The patient was in his usual state of health
examination at his primary care physician's office yesterday,
which was reportedly unremarkable.  The night prior to
admission he was doing well after dinner.  Between 8 and 9
p.m. he was noted by his wife to have difficulty speaking.
He was reported to have broken a plate and was attempting to
gain his wife attention from the bottom of the stairs, but
was not able to verbalize his wishes.  It was unclear whether
the same speech problems on the morning of admission.  There
is no report of fluctuation in his verbal output or his
understanding.  His deficits were maximal at onset and did
not improve.  The patient's arousability has not changed.
There has been no falls.  Weakness of the right hand was
reported at an outside hospital.  Mr. [**Known lastname 6359**] reports for
evaluation of speech arrest.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Coronary artery disease status
post coronary artery bypass graft in [**2153-3-2**].  2.
Atrial fibrillation.  3. Congestive heart failure.  4.
Hypertension.  5.  Diabetes type 2.  6.  Macular degeneration
resulting in legal blindness.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lopressor 25 mg po b.i.d., aspirin
325 mg po q day, Flomax .8 mg po q day, Zocor 10 mg po q.d.,
Glyburide 2.5 mg po q day, Proscar 5 mg po q day, potassium
20 milliequivalents po b.i.d., Ambien prn, Ativan prn, Tums
prn, senokot, Metamucil, Colace.  The patient had been on
Coumadin and Amiodarone postoperatively, but these were
discontinued.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father died of a stroke at 60.  Multiple
first degree relatives with cardiovascular.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Smoked cigarettes years ago.  He had
problems with alcohol abuse in the past, but no alcohol
intake for twenty years.  He lives at home with his wife.  [**Name (NI) **]
is capable of all activities of daily living.  He worked as a
wool broker.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs temperature
98.2.  Heart rate 74.  Blood pressure 188/99.  Breathing at
12, O2 sat 99% on room air.  In general, he is well
developed, well nourished elderly male lying comfortably in
the Emergency Department bed.  HEENT no evidence of trauma.
Mucous membranes are moist.  Pulmonary clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Cardiovascular irregular irregular.  No
murmurs.  Sternotomy scar.  Abdomen soft, mild distention,
positive bowel sounds times four.  No rebound or guarding.
Extremities 2+ pulses.  No edema.  Neurological mental status
awake and alert, speech output is decreased, content is
minimal, speech is filled with article suggestions and poorly
articulated words with few contents.  Opacity of speech is
preserved.  The patient looks toward the examiner when name
is stated.  Follows commands to close eyes.  He does not
follow commands to show teeth, raise hands, show fingers or
wiggle toes.  Cranial nerves, the patient follows examiner's
finger.  Pupils 5 to 2 and brisk bilaterally.  Funduscopy
shows arterial narrowing.  Uncooperative and unable to comply
with remainder of examination.  Motor normal bulk.  Increased
tone in arms and legs with left greater then right.  He moves
all four extremities, but does not follow commands to formal
testing.  Reflexes are 1+ throughout.  Toes are downgoing
bilaterally.  Sensory, the patient localizes painful stimuli
in all extremities.  Gait and coordination is not tested.

LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count 6.6,
hematocrit 40.9, platelets 151, PT 14.4, INR 1.5, PTT 40.7,
sodium 141, potassium 3.7, chloride 104, bicarb 28, BUN 11,
creatinine .7, glucose 100.  Radiology MRI shows infarct at
the left MCA territory with left quadrate ___________ nuclear
sclerotic, posterior ______________, operculum effected,
small left ____________ hemorrhage.  MRI of head shows a 75%
left internal carotid and focal stenosis of the proximal
portion of the left MCA.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Neurology
Service.  His blood pressure was in the range of 130 to 170
using po and intravenous Lopressor and Captopril.  The
patient was heparinized with a goal of 60 to 80.  He did not
receive a bolus.  The patient remained with a complete
aphasia and right sided pronator drift until the morning of
[**8-30**] when between 7 and 7:30 he was noted to be less
responsive and a right sided hemiplegia.  CT at that time
revealed large hemorrhage beginning from the old
site extending to the ventricles of the midline shift.  The
patient had been on heparin prior to transfer from the outside
facility.

The patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit to
manage the hemorrhagic transformation of his left MCA
infarct. While in the Intensive Care Unit control of his
blood pressure became difficult.  His blood pressure
frequently went above 200.  It was eventually brought under
control with a combination of nitro drip, Hydralazine,
Captopril and Lopressor.  While in the Intensive Care Unit
the patient was not noted to make a significant neurological
recovery.  He continued to be completely aphasic and have his
right sided hemiplegia.  In the Intensive Care Unit he was
started on Lovenox for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis,
received insulin sliding scale.  A urinary tract infection
was diagnosed on [**9-3**] and treated with Levaquin.  The
patient was made DNR/DNI while in the Intensive Care Unit.
Further CAT scan failed to demonstrate reabsorption of the
patient's large hemorrhage.  His neurological status did not
improve.

After extensive discussion the patient was made comfort
measures only on [**2153-9-11**].  He will be discharged to
hospice on [**2153-9-12**].

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Hemorrhagic infarct of left MCA.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Coronary artery disease.
4.  Congestive heart failure.
5.  Macular degenerative.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Scopolamine patch, Tylenol pr prn,
morphine sulfate, which is currently being administered
intravenous, but will be switched to sublingual upon
discharge.  The patient is being discharged as a comfort
measure only status.  He will not require outpatient follow
up.






                            [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 7495**] [**Name8 (MD) **], M.D.
[**MD Number(1) 7496**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5476**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2153-9-12**]  06:59
T:  [**2153-9-12**]  07:14
JOB#:  [**Job Number 38239**]
