Admission Date:  [**2200-2-1**]     Discharge Date:  [**2200-2-7**]

Date of Birth:   [**2156-5-19**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname **] is a 41-year-old
Portuguese mostly speaking male with history of
hypercholesterolemia, smoking history and alcoholism who was
transferred from an outside hospital with chief complaint of
recurrent chest pain.  He is a poor historian due to language
barrier and altered mental status.  He denies every having
chest pain or shortness of breath in the past.  As per
patient, this episode began two days prior to admission to
the outside hospital with substernal chest pain associated
with nausea, but not associated with shortness of breath,
diaphoresis or radiation.  His symptoms were intermittent
with episodes lasting up to one and a half to two hours.

Early on the morning of admission to the outside hospital,
patient had worsening of chest pain, causing him to present
to [**Hospital3 417**] Hospital Emergency Room where he was noted
to have significant ST elevations in the anterior precordial
leads, as well as small ST elevations in the inferior leads.
His CK on presentation there was 51.  He initially received
aspirin, heparin, nitroglycerin and Lopressor.  He was given
thrombolytic therapy with PNK but continued with improved but
persistent chest pain and improved but persistent ST
elevations and was therefore transferred to [**Hospital1 **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) 38785**] angioplasty.

His cardiac catheterization revealed a totally occluded mid
left anterior descending which was stented, a left circumflex
aneurysmal dilation, 40% mid right coronary artery lesion.
His pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was 20 and his central
venous pressure was 15.  After the intervention and on route
to the Coronary Care Unit, patient was noted to have frequent
runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia.  Immediately
post catheterization, he was begun on full dose Integrilin
and given intravenous Lopressor 5 mg times three a few
minutes apart to control his heart rate and treat his
non-sustained ventricular tachycardia.  His magnesium and
potassium were repleted.  He was started on half dose heparin
which was advanced to full dose after the Integrilin was
discontinued 18 hours post catheterization.  Upon arrival in
the unit, patient was easily arousable but confused and
disoriented.  He denied chest pain or shortness of breath.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypercholesterolemia.
2.  Alcoholism.  ? History of DTs in the past.
3.  Depression, suicide attempt in the past.
4.  Liver disease.  ? No other details available.

MEDICATIONS:  Patient denies taking any medications at home.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  The patient denies family history of
coronary artery disease in his parents or his eight siblings.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient drinks one case of beer per day,
has 60-90 pack year history.  Works in a foundry.  He is
divorced and estranged from family.  His wife currently has a
restraining order against him.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Afebrile.  Heart rate 70s.  Blood
pressure 105/70.  Respirations 17.  O2 saturation 98% on two
liters.  In general, patient somewhat somnolent, tremulous,
no apparent distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:
Pupils equal, round and reactive to light.  Extraocular
movements intact.  Dry mucous membranes.  Neck soft and
supple, no lymphadenopathy.  No jugular venous distention.
Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs.  S3 and
S4 gallops present.  Lungs:  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  Abdomen:  Soft, nondistended, nontender, no
hepatosplenomegaly and no masses, normal active bowel sounds.
Extremities:  No edema, warm, good distal pulses.  Skin:  No
palmar erythema or telangiectases.  Neurological:  Alert and
oriented to person and year, but not to months or location.
Unable to obtain full cooperation for neurological exam.

LABORATORIES:  White blood cell count 7.5, hematocrit 47,
platelets 234,000.  Sodium 138, potassium 3.6, BUN 8,
creatinine .8, glucose 103, INR 1.1.  Initial CK at outside
hospital 56.  Electrocardiogram from outside hospital as
noted above in history of present illness.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:

1.  Cardiac ischemia:  As detailed above in history of
present illness, patient with anterior ST elevation
myocardial infarction, failed thrombolysis and transferred to
[**Hospital3 **] for [**Hospital3 38785**] angioplasty.  Cardiac catheterization
revealed mid left anterior descending total occlusion which
was stented, left circumflex aneurysm and mid right coronary
artery 40% lesion.  Patient's CK peaked at 745.  His CK-MB
peaked at 107.  He was treated with aspirin, Plavix, full
dose Integrilin times 18 hours, heparin and aggressive heart
rate control with beta-blocker.  An ACE inhibitor was added
later in his hospital course.  His lipid panel was within
normal limits and due to his elevated LFTs, he was not
started on a statin.

2.  Pump:  Patient had a transthoracic echocardiogram which
revealed an ejection fraction of 40-45%, mild left
ventricular hypertrophy and anterior, distal septal and
apical akinesis.  Patient did not have any signs and symptoms
of heart failure during his hospitalization.  Patient was
started on Captopril and was titrated up to 12.5 mg po three
times a day by the end of his hospitalization.  Given the
apical akinesis, patient remained on heparin drip for
anticoagulation and will be discharged on Coumadin.

3.  EP:  Patient with multiple runs of non-sustained
ventricular tachycardia, as well as frequent ectopy after his
myocardial infarction and intervention.  His heart rate was
aggressively controlled with Lopressor and his calcium
potassium and magnesium which were quite low were
aggressively repleted.  After repletion of his electrolytes,
his non-sustained ventricular tachycardia resolved, although,
he continued to have occasional premature ventricular
contractions throughout the rest of his hospitalization.

4.  Psychiatry:  Patient with history of heavy alcohol use.
He was given standing benzodiazepines as well as a CIWA
scale.  His Ativan was slowly tapered over the course of his
hospitalization.  During his stay here, he did express
suicidal ideation and also had episodes of agitation
requiring a security sitter.  The Psychiatry Team was
consulted and they felt that his suicidal ideation was
transient and due to delirium while on benzodiazepines.  By
the end of his hospitalization, the Psychiatry Team deemed
the patient competent, no longer with suicidal ideation, and
no longer with any signs of delirium and stated that the
patient was safe to go home.  Inpatient detoxification was
offered to the patient, but he refused.  Therefore, he has
been given a phone number for outpatient detoxification
follow-up.

5.  Gastrointestinal:  Patient has elevated LFTs of unclear
etiology and per the patient an unspecified liver disorder.
This will be followed up as an outpatient.

6.  Fluid, electrolytes and nutrition:  Patient was
maintained on a cardiac diet, multivitamin, Thiamine and
folate during his hospitalization.

7.  Disposition:  Patient will be discharged home because he
has refused inpatient detoxification. We have met with the
patient in the presence of a Portuguese interpreter to
explain the events of this hospitalization.  The indications
for each of his medications with special emphasis on Plavix
for prevention of stent thrombosis and Coumadin for stroke
prevention with the caveat that there is bleeding risk on
Coumadin, especially in the setting of alcoholism.  Patient
understands the risks and benefits of his medications and has
agreed to proceed with taking them.  He ahs also promised to
follow-up with his primary care physician for INR monitoring,
as well as cardiac follow-up.

Patient is full code.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Discharged to home in stable condition.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Anterior ST elevation myocardial infarction.
2.  Status post left anterior descending stent placement.
3.  Alcoholism.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg po once a day.
2.  Plavix 75 mg po once a day to