Admission Date: [**2170-3-26**]        Discharge Date: [**2170-4-4**]

Date of Birth:  [**2103-5-21**]        Sex:  F

Service:  MED


This is a 66-year-old woman who is status post fall at home
and comes in complaining of right hip and right wrist pain.
The patient reports the fall 2 hours prior to admission.  She
was walking across the room at baseline.  She was slightly
unsteady.  She went to reach for a doorknob, missed and fell
onto her right side and an extended right arm.  There was no
loss of consciousness, no evidence of head trauma.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for coronary artery
disease status post CABG in [**2161**].

History of atrial fibrillation.

History of diabetes.

History of end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis.

History of deep venous thrombosis in the upper extremity in
[**2160**].

History of COPD.

History of depression.

MEDICATIONS ON ARRIVAL:
1. Metoprolol.
2. Captopril.
3. Amiodarone.
4. Celexa.
5. Lasix.
6. Renagel.
7. Neurontin.
8. Atrovent.
9. Albuterol.
10.      Coumadin.

Doses were unknown at the time of admission.

ALLERGIES:  THE PATIENT STATES SHE IS ALLERGIC TO PENICILLIN.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her sister as well as at a
disabled service facility.  No tobacco, no alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  She was alert, in no
acute distress.  Afebrile.  Heart rate 70, blood pressure
106/60, respirations 18, saturating 97 percent on room air.
Pupils are reactive.  Neck was supple.  Lungs had rales at
the bases bilaterally.  Cardiac exam has regular rate.  S1
and S2 normal with a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur best
appreciated in the left upper sternal border.  Abdomen is
soft, nontender, nondistended.  Normoactive bowel sounds.
Extremities, the right upper extremity had pain to palpation
at the wrist, which was greater on the radial side.  There
was decreased flexion and extension of the wrist secondary to
pain.  Sensation was throughout and there were good pulses.
The right lower extremity was both shortened and externally
rotated.  There was pain to palpation in the anterior groin.
She was unable to straight leg raise the right side.  There
were good distal pulses in both the right and left lower
extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  Revealed a white count of 22, hematocrit of
37, INR of 4.6, BUN and creatinine 47/6.0.  Initial x-rays
revealed a intratrochanteric fracture of the right hip as
well as a distal radial fracture of the right wrist, neither
fracture was displaced.  The patient was initially admitted
to the orthopedic service with a diagnosis of a right hip
fracture as well as a right radial wrist fracture.  Due to
INR of 4.6, decision was made to hold Coumadin and wait for
the INR to get less than 1.5 prior to surgery.  The patient
was given 1 dose of vitamin K as well.  EKG was performed,
which was unremarkable.  The patient was seen by the primary
medical attending, Dr. [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initial (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1022**] who stated that with the
addition of pre-procedure beta-blocker, the patient could
proceed to surgery.  The patient underwent surgery on
[**2170-3-28**].  The INR fell below 1.5.  Hip surgery itself was
uncomplicated and the patient did well postoperatively.
However, on postoperative day number 2, the patient was
complaining of right foot pain and vascular surgery was
consulted, the patient had a history of a distal bypass graft
on the right side and the concern was for graft occlusion.
On [**2170-3-30**], the patient was taken urgently for right femoral
to AT bypass thrombectomy which allowed restoration of flow
to the distal extremity and relief of the patient's pain.
This operation was uncomplicated.  On the following day,
however, the patient had blood pressures in the 70s-80s
range.  Subsequently, hemodialysis removed only 1 liter of
fluid.  The patient also became quite agitated and was given
several doses of Haldol which controlled her agitation.  On
[**2170-4-1**], the medical ICU team was consulted for an episode
of respiratory distress.  The patient was breathing at a rate
of 30 with O2 saturation in the 80s on 35 percent shovel
mask.  She was given nebulizers and chest PT instruction with
minimal improvement in her O2 saturation.  The patient was
subsequently increased to a 100 percent shovel mask and
eventually nonrebreather with saturations in the 70s-80s.
After evaluation by the medical ICU team, the patient's BiPAP
was initiated and the patient was transferred to the ICU.  In
the ICU, the patient was intubated for hypoxic respiratory
distress.  Chest x-ray revealed multifocal infiltrates
consistent with an aspiration pneumonia.  The patient's blood
pressure was in the 70s and 80s consistent with septic shock.
PA catheter was placed which confirmed septic shock likely
secondary to aspiration pneumonia.  The patient was started
on multiple pressors including vasopressin and Levophed to
maintain blood pressure as well as initiating a broad-
spectrum antibiotics with IV ceftazidime, vancomycin, and
Flagyl.  The patient underwent a cortisone stimulation test
which revealed normal cortisol access and was given 1 dose of
hydrocortisone.  The patient's ICU course was really
complicated by refractory hypotension and lactic acidosis.
CVVH was initiated to improve acid-base as well as for volume
removal.  On the night of [**4-3**], the patient had several
episodes of polymorphic VT lasting 30 to 40 beats.
Cardiology was consulted and a lidocaine drip was initiated
with some control.  The patient was also started on
amiodarone p.o.  Code status was discussed with family the
following morning, who stated that the patient would not want
resuscitation in the event of a terminal cardiac event.
However, we were to continue all other aspects of aggressive
care including medicines for blood pressure support and
antibiotics to control the infection.  Despite this on the
[**4-4**] at 04:30 a.m., the patient underwent a prolonged
episode of polymorphic VT which degenerated into ventricular
fibrillation and eventually asystole.  The patient was given
several rounds of epinephrine and atropine and bicarbonates
and was bolused with lidocaine.  No CPR, no compressions were
initiated secondary to family's previous request.  Despite
medical treatment of her cardiac arrest, native rhythm was
not restored and the patient was pronounced, on [**4-4**] at
06:30 a.m. the patient passed away.  The family was notified.
Postmortem was declined.



                        [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 1151**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2146**], [**MD Number(1) 20328**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 20329**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2170-5-14**] 12:10:52
T:  [**2170-5-14**] 22:29:46
Job#:  [**Job Number 20330**]
