Admission Date:  [**2132-12-6**]     Discharge Date:  [**2132-12-12**]


Service:  Medicine, [**Doctor Last Name **] Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86-year-old
female who was transferred from an outside hospital with a
lower gastrointestinal bleed.

The patient presented to an outside hospital one day prior to
admission after developing persistent and increased bright
red blood per rectum that was associated with
lightheadedness.  The patient was unable to quantify how much
blood had passed.

At the outside hospital, the patient was noted to be
hypotensive with systolic blood pressures in the 80s and
heart rate of 60.  The patient was treated with 3.5 liters of
crystalloid and 3 units of packed red blood cells.  The
patient was also noted to have dynamic changes on his
electrocardiogram.

Prior to Emergency Medical Service, the patient reportedly
passed out.  The patient was recently admitted to the
Veterans Administration three weeks prior to admission with a
similar complaint of dark stools for one year.  A colonoscopy
that was performed on [**2132-11-30**] at the Veterans
Administration showed internal hemorrhoids, diverticula, and
a bleeding arteriovenous malformation in the ascending colon
that was actively bleeding and was subsequently cauterized.
The patient was discharged to home four days later.

On the day of admission, the patient apparently still had
bright red blood per rectum but denied any chest pain,
shortness of breath, palpitations, abdominal pain, nausea,
vomiting, diarrhea, hematemesis, fevers, chills, cough,
sputum, or lower extremity edema.

The patient was still having persistent dark stools on
admission.  The patient reportedly that the bleeding had
stopped after the procedure was done at the outside hospital
but the restarted the day after he was discharged to home.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was typed and
crossed and given fresh frozen plasma and 2 liters of normal
saline.  The patient was then subsequently transferred to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (The patient's (Past medical history
is significant for)
 1.  Coronary artery disease; status post coronary artery
bypass graft.
 2.  Porcine aortic valve.
 3.  Hypertension.
 4.  Basal cell carcinoma.
 5.  Atrial fibrillation.
 6.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
 7.  Gout.
 8.  Urethral stricture.
 9.  Status post pacemaker placement.
10.  Diabetes.
11.  Hyperlipidemia.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (The patient's medications on
admission were)
 1.  Nitroglycerin tablets as needed.
 2.  Aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Lovastatin 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Lactulose.
 5.  Senna.
 6.  Allopurinol 300 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Hemorrhoid cream.
 8.  Colace as needed.
 9.  Iron sulfate.
10.  Coumadin 2 mg by mouth at hour of sleep.
11.  Metformin 500 mg by mouth every day.
12.  Lasix 20 mg by mouth twice per day.
13.  Omeprazole 40 mg by mouth once per day.
14.  Toprol-XL 50 mg by mouth once per day.
15.  Lisinopril 40 mg by mouth once per day.
16.  Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg by mouth once per day.

ALLERGIES:  The patient is allergic to BACITRACIN.

FAMILY HISTORY:   The patient family history was
noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is married and has two
daughters.  The patient's does not have a history of any
alcohol, tobacco, or intravenous drug use.  The patient
receives all of his care at the [**Hospital1 1474**] Veterans
Administration Hospital.  His primary care physician is [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **].
[**Last Name (STitle) 22799**] at the Veterans Administration Hospital.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   The patient's vital
signs on admission revealed his blood pressure was 91/41, his
heart rate was 60, his respiratory rate was 17, and his
oxygen saturation was 100% on 2 liters via nasal cannula.
The patient's temperature was 96 degrees Fahrenheit.  In
general, the patient an obese elderly gentleman.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose, and throat examination revealed the sclerae were
anicteric.  The pupils were equal, round, and reactive to
light.  The oropharynx was clean and dry.  The patient had a
basal cell carcinomatous lesion on his right upper forehead.
Neck examination revealed that the neck was supple.  There
was no lymphadenopathy and no bruits.  His lung examination
revealed crackles at the bases bilaterally.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  Normal first
heart sounds and second heart sounds.  The patient had a 2/6
systolic ejection murmur.  There was a midline scar
consistent with his coronary artery bypass graft in the past.
The abdominal examination revealed normal active bowel
sounds.  The abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.
There was no hepatosplenomegaly.  There were no masses.  His
rectal examination revealed brown stool that was mixed with
bright red blood.  His extremity examination revealed trace
edema.  The pulses were 1+ in the lower extremities.  There
were no rashes.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  The patient's
laboratories on admission were notable for a hematocrit of
24.9 at the outside hospital.  At [**Hospital1 190**] the patient's hematocrit was 29.8.  At the
outside hospital the patient's creatine kinase was 38 and his
troponin was 0.05.  He had an INR of 2.7.  The patient's
creatine kinase on admission here at [**Hospital1 190**] was 43.  The MB was not done.  The troponin
was less than 0.01.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  The patient's electrocardiogram
on admission revealed ventricular pacing at 60.  There were
ST depressions in leads V3 through V6.  There was a biphasic
T wave in leads V4 and V5.

The patient's echocardiogram done in [**2132-11-24**] at the
Veterans Administration remainder unavailable throughout
hospital hospitalization.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:   The
[**Hospital 228**] hospital course was as follows.

1.  LOWER GASTROINTESTINAL BLEED ISSUES:  The patient
received 6 units of fresh frozen plasma and 6 units of packed
red blood cells during his Medical Intensive Care Unit stay.

The patient's aspirin and Coumadin were on hold for at least
two weeks secondary to his gastrointestinal bleed.

Both the Gastroenterology Service and Surgery Service were
consulted.  The patient received a bleeding scan that was
notable for a negative result, and according to the
Gastroenterology Service, the patient was planned for an
outpatient esophagogastroduodenoscopy if the patient remained
stable throughout his hospital stay.

The patient did not have any repeat bleeding throughout his
hospital course, and the patient's hematocrit remained
stable.  On admission, his hematocrit was 29.  The patient's
hematocrit after the blood transfusions remained stable.  The
patient was discharged with a hematocrit of 36.4 on the day
of discharge.

The patient was instructed to follow up at the [**Hospital1 1474**]
Veterans Administration Hospital for an outpatient
esophagogastroduodenoscopy after discharge.  The patient also
reported throughout the hospitalization that he had no
further episodes of lightheadedness or dizziness.

2.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  The patient has a history of
coronary artery disease and had dynamic changes on his
electrocardiogram from the outside hospital that was most
likely due to demand ischemia.

The patient's cardiac enzymes were cycled, and the results
were negative for a myocardial infarction.  The patient's
antihypertensive medications were held initially throughout
his hospitalization and then restarted on day three of
hospitalization without any complications.

Although the patient was restarted on his beta blocker, and
statin, and ACE inhibitor medications the patient's aspirin
and Coumadin were held secondary to the risk of
gastrointestinal bleeding.

3.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE ISSUES:  The patient was deemed
to have congestive heart failure exacerbation during his
hospitalization secondary to the extensive fluids and blood
products that were given to the patient for his lower
gastrointestinal bleed.  The patient responded very nicely to
intravenous Lasix diuresis.

On the day of discharge, the patient was saturating