Admission Date:  [**2194-10-6**]     Discharge Date:  [**2194-11-6**]


Service:  MEDICINE

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Lung tumor.

POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Lung tumor.

PROCEDURES PERFORMED:  Left upper lobe limited resection via
a thoracotomy and biopsy of left lower lobe.

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 79-year-old man
with a history of chronic cough, dyspnea on exertion, status
post old MI, history of interstitial lung disease who
presented with a mass in the medial aspect of the left lower
lobe.  The patient had a PET scan which was positive in this
region as well as a clarifying CAT scan.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  He was taken to the OR for the procedure
above.  He did well immediately perioperatively from this
procedure and was getting ready to be discharge home on
postoperative day number two; however, he had low saturations
and dyspnea on the evening of postoperative day number two
and had to be transferred to the Intensive Care Unit.  From
this point on, he spent approximately ten days in the
Cardiothoracic Surgical Intensive Care Unit where he started
to become progressively more hypoxic, eventually requiring
intubation.

He had a picture that blossomed into ARDS and after various
modes of ventilatory therapy, including antibiotics and
pulmonary toilet, he was noted not to be progressing in the
ARDS.  He was transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit
Service on postoperative day number ten and continued to
undergo various modes of ventilatory weaning.

Eventually, despite multiple modes of therapy and the
inability to make progress on his ARDS with a worsening PF
ratio, family discussions with the service were had and the
patient was made DNR comfort care only.  He expired on
[**2194-11-8**] with no autopsy allegedly performed.

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:   Left-sided lung tumor.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:   Limited thoracotomy with biopsy of the
above with multisystem organ failure and Adult Respiratory
Distress Syndrome occurring postoperatively.




                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 177**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 178**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 179**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 12027**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2195-1-7**]  12:56
T:  [**2195-1-7**]  13:19
JOB#:  [**Job Number 42787**]
