Admission Date:  [**2104-2-19**]       Discharge Date:


Service:  Medicine/Medical Intensive Care Unit

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 88-year-old female of
Philippina origin with a history of bronchial adenocarcinoma,
status post right lower lobe and right middle lobe resection
in [**2101-12-5**], without chemotherapy or radiation
therapy, and with a questionable cerebellar mass, possible
metastasis diagnosed in [**2102-6-5**] by head CT which has
remained unchanged, and history of mild baseline Alzheimer's
dementia who was living at home and fully capable of
activities of daily living two days prior to the date of
presentation who has a more recent past medical history
significant for an appendectomy in [**2103-9-5**] with a
perioperative non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, a left
femoral popliteal to common femoral lower extremity deep
venous thrombosis diagnosed in [**Month (only) **], hypertension,
recurrent urinary tract infections with methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus urosepsis in [**2103-10-6**], was in
her usual state of health significant for a recent weight
loss of approximately five pounds, down to a weight of 65
pounds, until two days prior to admission when she had begun
to have a cough productive of some mild sputum and general
feeling of malaise with some mild nausea without vomiting,
who continued good p.o. intake (according to the family) who
noted urine output drop over the two to three days prior to
presentation.

In the morning on the day of admission she complained of low
back pain and felt progressively weaker and felt progressive
shortness of breath and some difficulty breathing with a
slightly productive cough.  She refused to eat breakfast and
did not take any of her medications.  Around 11 a.m. the
patient became unresponsive and the family noted crackling
breath sounds audible and brought the patient to the
Emergency Room via personal transportation.  On the way to
the Emergency Room via the family's automobile the patient
became apneic and the daughter performed mouth-to-mouth
ventilation for a few seconds until the patient's
respirations started again spontaneously.

The patient arrived to the Emergency Department unresponsive,
hypoxic, and hypotensive.  Prior to this presentation, the
family did not note any complaint of chest pain, abdominal
pain, headache, fever, chills, bright red blood per rectum,
seizure activity, urinary or fecal incontinence, and no signs
of focal weakness or neurologic symptoms.  No complaints of
visual disturbances.  The patient was described as being
slightly diaphoretic but not cyanotic.  She had had several
greenish slightly loose bowel movements in the last few days,
but no frank diarrhea or emesis.

In the Emergency Room she was intubated for hypocarbic
respiratory failure and was unresponsive and hypotensive.
She received intravenous fluids through a left femoral triple
lumen central catheter which was placed.  A head CT without
contrast was obtained which showed no acute changes, per
report.  Electrocardiogram showed new right bundle-branch
block, first heart sound, Q3, precordial T wave inversions,
with no ST elevations or changes suggestive of myocardial
ischemia.

The patient was given ceftriaxone 2 g intravenously times one
in the Emergency Department and was also given calcium
gluconate, insulin, and glucose, and Kayexalate for a high
potassium level.  Chest x-ray with an official read of mild
interstitial edema, questionable right upper lobe infiltrate.
An nasogastric tube was placed.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The patient was
notable for a temperature of 96.7 upon arrival, a heart rate
of 68, blood pressure of 52/41, respiratory rate of 28,
satting 86% on a nonrebreather.  General examination revealed
a cachectic, anicteric, intubated patient responding to
painful stimuli in all four extremities, slightly cyanotic in
the fingers, perioral region and toes.  Head, ears, nose,
eyes and throat examination revealed left pupil to be post
surgical and difficult to evaluate.  The right was pinpoint
and round, approximately 1 mm to 2 mm.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a tachycardic regular rhythm with a 3/6
systolic murmur at the second intercostal space on the left
side.  No carotid bruits.  No jugular venous distention, and
no heave.  Lungs anteriorly with bilateral crackles.  No
wheezes.  No rales.  Her abdomen was soft, nontender, and
nondistended, with positive bowel sounds.  Rectal examination
revealed normal tone, guaiac-positive.  Extremities revealed
positive peripheral cyanosis.  No clubbing.  No edema, and no
calf asymmetry or swelling.  Neurologic examination was
limited by the patient's mental status but revealed 2+ deep
tendon reflexes throughout, moved all extremities
spontaneously.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Adenocarcinoma of the lungs, status post right lower lobe
and right middle lobe resection in [**2101-10-5**], for
which the patient is followed by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 816**] at [**Hospital1 1444**], with no radiation or
chemotherapy.  The patient had previously been without signs
of recurrence by surveillance chest x-ray.
2.  Baseline mild Alzheimer's dementia.
3.  Status post appendectomy with perioperative non-Q-wave
myocardial infarction on [**2103-10-9**].
4.  Recurrent urinary tract infections with an admission for
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus urosepsis in late
[**2103-10-6**].
5.  Hypertension.
6.  History of deep venous thrombosis with left popliteal to
common femoral deep venous thrombosis diagnosed in [**2103-10-6**].  The patient currently on anticoagulation therapy on
the day of admission.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  On admission the patient was
taking Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Aricept 5 mg p.o. q.d.,
Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d., magnesium hydroxide 400 mg p.o.
b.i.d., Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.d. three days per week,
lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. three days per week, Norvasc 2.5 mg
p.o. three days per week, Imdur 3 mg p.o. q.d. two days per
week, Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. three days per week, K-Dur 20 mEq
p.o. three days per week, Coumadin 2 mg p.o. q.h.s.,
vitamin E 400 IU p.o. q.d., Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n.
for pain.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient was fully capable of activities
of daily living and living at home with her daughter at the
time of admission.  The patient does not drink alcohol, has
no history of smoking, and does not engage in recreational
drug use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was noncontributory.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Review of systems was not obtainable at
the time of admission; however, per the patient's family, the
review of systems is incorporated in the History of Present
Illness, and essentially was in her usual state of health
with no complaints.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Pertinent examinations on presentation in
the Emergency Room revealed a chest x-ray with right pleural
effusion, bilateral interstitial edema, and question of no
nodules, no clear V-lines, no hilar prominence.

Head CT without contrast was unremarkable for an acute event.

Electrocardiogram as discussed above.

Most recent echocardiogram on [**2103-10-11**] which showed
an ejection fraction of 60% with mild symmetric left
ventricular hypertrophy.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Pertinent
laboratories upon arrival revealed a white blood cell count
of 11.9, hemoglobin of 12, hematocrit of 39.3, platelets
of 240, a sodium 138, a potassium of 7.3, a chloride of 99, a
bicarbonate of 24, a blood urea nitrogen of 94, and a
creatinine of 2.2 (up from a baseline of 0.7), glucose
of 205.  Coagulations revealed a PT of 15.7, a PTT of 22.9,
and an INR of 1.7, fibrinogen level of 520.  Creatine kinase
level was 49.  Troponin was 3.  Amylase was 147.  Urinalysis
was notable to 6 to 10 red blood cells, status post Foley
placement, 0 to 2 white blood cells, and was negative
otherwise with 3 to 5 squamous epithelial cells, and 0 to 2
hyaline casts.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted and taken to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit with ventilatory support, status
post intubation and continued aggressive fluid resuscitation
for h