Admission Date:  [**2156-9-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2156-10-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2094-11-18**]     Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 61-year-old
woman with a past medical history notable for type 2 diabetes
mellitus and end-stage renal disease requiring hemodialysis,
as well as a history of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus bacteremia, who presented to the [**Hospital1 190**] Emergency Department with mild confusion,
nausea, and vomiting times one, as well as fever to 102.8 on
the day of admission.  The patient denied any chills or
sweats, although she did admit to headache without
photophobia.  She also admitted some weakness and fatigue,
but no arthralgias or myalgias. The patient further denied
abdominal pain, chest pain, and shortness of breath.  Further
review of systems revealed a complaint of erythema and
tenderness over the patient's hemodialysis line site.
Otherwise, the patient denied a history of dyspnea on
exertion, orthopnea, hematochezia or melena and rashes.

In the Emergency Room, the patient received vancomycin,
ceftriaxone, Flagyl, and gentamicin times one.  She was found
to be hyperkalemic with a potassium of 6.6, and an
electrocardiogram revealed peaked T waves.  The patient
subsequently received Kayexalate, insulin, calcium chloride,
and glucose.  The patient was also found to be hypoxic with
variable oxygen requirements in the Emergency Department.  On
100% nonrebreather mask her arterial blood gas was
7.44/44/135; although it was unclear to the admitting medical
team what the true oxygen amount at that time was.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes mellitus, insulin-dependent for
approximately seven years.
2.  End-stage renal disease, on hemodialysis on Monday,
Wednesday and Friday.  The patient's nephrologist is
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 32690**] (phone number [**Telephone/Fax (1) 32691**]).
3.  Peripheral vascular disease, status post right below-knee
amputation in [**2155-9-26**].
4.  Fungal urinary tract infection.
5.  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia in
[**2155-11-26**].
6.  Congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction
reported as "low normal" on an exercise treadmill test and
thallium study in [**2156-4-25**].
7.  Pulmonary hypertension.
8.  Left foot ulcer with a history of Staphylococcus aureus
gram-negative rods and diphtheroids for cultures obtained in
[**2156-7-25**].
9.  Peripheral neuropathy.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN (causes rash), SULFA (causes rash),
CLINDAMYCIN (causes hives), possible CODEINE allergy,
possible ERYTHROMYCIN allergy.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Outpatient medications included)
 1.  Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
 2.  Nephrocaps 1 tablet p.o. q.d.
 3.  NPH insulin 13 units subcutaneous q.a.m.; 10 units
subcutaneous q.p.m.
 4.  Sinemet 25 mg to 100 mg q.h.s.
 5.  Zantac 150 mg p.o. q.d.
 6.  Regular insulin sliding-scale.
 7.  Senokot.
 8.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
 9.  Neurontin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
10.  Levaquin 250 mg p.o. times one year; reasons unclear.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  (Performed by
admitting Renal and Medical Intensive Care Unit teams)
Emergency Department vital signs were temperature of 101.7,
blood pressure 114/64, heart rate 102, respirations 20,
satting 85% on room air.  HEENT revealed pupils were
constricted to approximately 1 mm, reactive.  Extraocular
movements were intact.  Mucous membranes were moist.  No
jugular venous distention or lymphadenopathy.  Chest had
crackles at the bases bilaterally, approximately one-third of
the way up the posterior fields.  Hemodialysis line site was
tender.  Heart had a regular rate and rhythm with S1 and S2.
No murmurs, rubs or gallops.  Abdomen was soft, obese,
diffusely tender.  No rashes.  Extremities had no clubbing,
cyanosis or edema.  Right below-knee amputation.  Tenderness
to palpation bilaterally.  Left foot ulcer was clean, dry and
intact.  Neurologically, alert and oriented times three.
Strength was [**5-29**] in all extremities except hip flexion which
was [**4-29**] secondary to pain (chronic).

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratory data upon
presentation were as follows:  Complete blood count revealed
a white blood cell count of 17.5 with a differential of
87 neutrophils, no bands, 7.9 lymphocytes, and 4.3 monocytes,
0.5 eosinophils, and 0.2 basophils.  Hematocrit was 39.2,
platelets 184.  Chem-7 revealed a sodium of 134, and was
notable for a potassium of 6.8, chloride 92, bicarbonate 26,
BUN 49, creatinine 7.6, glucose 113.  Electrolytes revealed a
calcium of 8.1, magnesium of 1.7, phosphorous of 8.6.
Albumin was 3.3.  Coagulation studies revealed an INR of 1.2,
PT of 13.5, and PTT of 49.9.  Arterial blood gas on 100%
oxygen revealed a pH of 7.44, CO2 of 44, and PO2 of 135.
Lactate was 1.7.  Subsequent evaluation of potassium
following Kayexalate and other potassium-lowering therapy
revealed potassium to be 3.6.  Liver enzymes were as follows:
ALT of 11, AST of 18, alkaline phosphatase 100, and amylase
of 23.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:   Electrocardiogram revealed peaked T
waves consistent with hyperkalemia.

Chest x-ray revealed right middle lobe and right lower lobe
infiltrates with possible left lower lobe infiltrate.

Subsequent electrocardiogram following treatment for
hyperkalemia revealed that the peaked T waves had improved
somewhat with the patient's rate reduced to 93.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was admitted initially to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit for treatment of her hyperkalemia
and presumed sepsis.  Blood cultures were drawn on
presentation and subsequently revealed methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus.

1.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient was continued for a time
on ceftriaxone for her pneumonia as well as Flagyl for
possible aspiration, as the patient had vomited on the day of
presentation.  The patient was also continued on vancomycin
for presumed line infection and her history of
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.  The patient
received gentamicin as well for line infection per Renal
recommendations. Vancomycin and gentamicin levels were
followed, and her vancomycin was administered with
hemodialysis.  The patient's blood cultures, as noted above,
subsequently grew out methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus.  The patient was stabilized following the day on
admission, and later that day her hemodialysis line was
changed by the transplant team.  Later that evening she was
transferred to the medical floor on the [**Location (un) **] Medicine
Service.

Her antibiotic regimen was eventually tailored to include
vancomycin and Levaquin.  Her vancomycin levels were
followed, and vancomycin was dosed accordingly at
hemodialysis.  Since transfer to the floor, the patient
remained afebrile and her white blood cell count decreased to
the normal range.

2.  RENAL:  The patient has end-stage renal disease and on
hemodialysis three times a week.  The Renal team followed the
patient closely.  As noted above, the patient's hemodialysis
catheter was removed and replaced with a temporary cathether.
This catheter clogged briefly during dialysis on [**10-4**]
and had to be changed over a wire on that day.  Also notable
in terms of the patient's renal course, did become fairly
hyperphosphatemic, such that her phosphorous level
reached 11.5.  Thus, her dose of Renagel was increased and
Amphojel was added for a 5-day course as well.

In terms of the patient's hyperkalemia that was soon
corrected following the above-mentioned therapy as well as
the dialysis sessions.  On the day of discharge the patient's
potassium was 5.5, and she was scheduled to receive dialysis
the next day.

3.  ENDOCRINE:  (Type 2 diabetes mellitus)  The patient's
fingerstick blood sugars were fairly well controlled on a
regular insulin sliding-scale and NPH.

In terms of the patient's left foot ulcer, Vascular Surgery
saw the patient and felt that the wound was not currently
infected.  They recommended wet-to-dry normal saline dressing
changes t.i.d., and these were carried out.

4.  PULMONARY:  (Pneumonia)  As above, the patient was
treated with the above antibiotics and also treated with a
brief course of Levaquin.  She 