Admission Date:  [**2125-11-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2125-12-3**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:

Service:  C-MED

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Patient is a 74 year-old female
with history of coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular
disease, aortic patch and insulin dependent diabetes mellitus
who has had a coronary artery bypass graft with multiple
catheterizations as well as recent increase in her anginal
symptoms.  She developed chest pain radiating to her back and
arms since 8 P.M. the night before admission.  She also
complained of shortness of breath which was worsening and
cough but no wheezing noted as well as nausea, vomiting and
abdominal pain.  Patient was seen at [**Hospital3 36606**] Hospital
where she received nitroglycerin and the pain improved.  She
was transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] with
only tightness as her complaint.  She is currently pain-free
on admission and hasn't received any new medications.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Is significant for 1) insulin
dependent diabetes mellitus time 40 years, 2) coronary artery
disease with coronary artery bypass graft times two [**Numeric Identifier 40358**],
history of angioplasty at [**Hospital6 2910**].  3)
Arteriovenous malformation in the bowel.  4) Peptic ulcer
disease with history of gastrointestinal bleeding.  5) total
abdominal hysterectomy.  6) Possible aortic valve
replacement.  7) Aortic patch.  8) Colostomy which has since
been reversed.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1) Protonix 40 mg p.o. q day, 2)
insulin NPH, 3) folic acid, 4) iron supplementation, 5)
Lipitor 80 mg p.o. q.h.s., 6) Imdur 120 mg p.o. q. day, 7)
nitroglycerin p.r.n., 8) metoprolol 25 mg p.o. q.h.s., 9)
Lasix 20 mg p.o. b..d., 10) Premarin 0.625 mg p.o. q. day,
11) vitamin B12 q month, 12) Zestril 10 mg p.o. q day, 13)
Epogen.

ALLERGIES:  1) Beef insulin, 2) sulfa, 3) cefoxitin, 4)
penicillin, 5) codeine, 6) Clindamycin, 7) Cardizem, 8)
shellfish.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father and mother both with coronary artery
disease.  All have hypertension and diabetes.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No alcohol or drug use or tobacco use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission - a well developed and
obese female in mild respiratory distress.  Vital signs:
Temperature 97.9,blood pressure 145/37, pulse 60, O2
saturation 98% on 2 liters.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat: pupils equal, round and reactive to light and
accomodation, extraocular movements intact.  Oropharynx
clear. Neck supple, unable to assess jugular venous
distention.  Lungs bilateral dependent rales, no wheezing.
Cardiovascular examination - regular rate and rhythm, S1, S2,
no distant heart sounds.  Abdomen soft, nontender,
nondistended, normal active bowel sounds.  Extremities: warm,
no edema.  Pulse: right with radial 2+, dorsalis pedis 2+,
radial on the left is dopplerable, dorsalis pedis is 1+.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count 7.1,
hematocrit 31.1, sodium 141, potassium 4.3, chloride 104,
bicarbonate 26, BUN 26, creatinine 1.1, glucose 179.  CK 72
at the outside hospital, troponin of 0.9.  Electrocardiogram
with sinus rhythm at 74, left bundle branch block, normal
axis, ST elevations in V2 to V3 with depressions in V4 and
V5.  No significant change from outside hospital.  Chest
x-ray with mild congestive heart failure, no pneumonia.

IMPRESSION:  Patient is a 74 year-old female with cardiac
history and diabetes mellitus who presents with worsening
angina and acute chest pain radiating to the back and arms
and neck which has now resolved.

HOPSITAL COURSE:  1) Cardiovascular.  Chest pain was felt to
be consistent with acute coronary syndrome versus aortic
dissection especially with the history of aortic patch.
Patient was cycled with serial enzymes and did rule in for
myocardial infarction by enzymes, was continued on her
statin, Nitropaste and Imdur, on metoprolol and Zestril and
increased dose of Lasix for mild degree of failure.  On
[**2125-11-29**] patient developed 10 out of 10 chest pain
radiating to the neck with severe shortness of breath.
Vitals were 89 percent on 2 liters of O2.  She was then given
a nonrebreather, Lopressor 5 mg intravenous times two, 4 mg
of morphine, 2 mg of Ativan.  Her vitals were then 100
percent on nonrebreather with stable blood pressure and
pulse.  Laboratories showed troponin of 3.2, arterial blood
gases showing a gas of pO2 161, CO2 of 53.  Chest x-ray
showed bilateral pulmonary edema.  Patient was transferred to
the Cardiac Care Unit for further management.  She was
continued on heparin, nitro drip as well as all of her home
medications and no further episodes of chest pain.  Patient
underwent catheterization on [**2125-11-30**] which had a PTCA
and stent of the SVG to LAD and anastomosis distal to graft
touchdown.  SVG to RCA showed no evidence of stenosis.  There
was a tight ostial and proximal left circumflex which was not
stented secondary to dye load that was given and patient was
transferred back to the Cardiac Care Unit for monitoring
until further catheterization on [**Last Name (LF) 766**], [**2125-12-3**].
Over the weekend she had no significant events and underwent
cardiac catheterization on [**2125-12-3**].  Cardiac
catheterization on [**2125-12-3**] with an attempt to
intervene on the left circumflex.  However, due to difficulty
passing wire through the left circumflex artery lesion there
was no intervention that was done.  Post procedure patient
was doing well.  However, after the sheath was pulled she
began to develop a large groin hematoma around noon on
[**2125-12-3**].  Patient had a significant groin hematoma
which began to expand, was given blood as well as several
liters of intravenous fluid.  The interventional fellow was
present and attempted to put pressure on the femoral artery.
However, the hematoma was large and the patient's body
habitus prevented adequate hemostasis.  Patient was
transferred up to the Cardiac Care Unit for evaluation and
treatment.  Arterial line was placed for further monitoring
of her blood pressure and patient was noted to be severely
hypotensive.  Blood pressure readings were difficult to
correlate with cuff measurements as patient's cuff
measurements were fluctuating wildly from 60 systolic to 120
systolic.  Arterial line measurements were the ones that were
used for evaluation and treatment.  Patient was started on
Dopamine as well as Levophed for increasing her systolic
pressure.  However, she was failing to respond to both of
these.  Over 4 liters of intravenous saline were given to her
with little improvement in systolic blood pressure.  Patient
was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory which was
performed as an emergent catheterization by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]
with fellow [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Hospital1 46**] present.  Left sided cardiac
catheterization showed occlusion 100 percent of the left main
coronary artery, SVG to the LAD was 100 percent occluded, SVG
to the RCA was not injected due to cardiac arrest.
Immediately upon establishing arterial accessed patient began
to develop refractory ventricular tachycardia and pulseless
electrical activity.  Attempt was made to PTCA the occluded
SVG to LAD but while preparing equipment patient became
asystolic.  Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was initiated and
patient coded for about 25 minutes.  Despite multiple doses
of intravenous epinephrine, atropine, calcium chloride,
bicarbonate patient remained in PA for more than 20 minutes
with no return of any visible cardiac activity by
fluoroscopy.  Code was called at 6:55 P.M.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Acute myocardial infarction.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Expired.




                            [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], MD  [**MD Number(1) 21980**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 4630**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2126-2-11**]  10:59
T:  [**2126-2-11**]  13:38
JOB#:  [**Job Number 40359**]
