Admission Date:  [**2118-1-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2118-2-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2094-8-4**]     Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:  Splenic rupture.

SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS:  None.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 23 year old
male transferred from [**Hospital 48951**]Hospital with the
diagnosis of splenic rupture.  The patient fell from a
standing position while snow boarding.  Denied loss of
consciousness.  The patient was able to get up, drove himself
to an outside hospital where he obtained an abdominal CT
showing a grade 4 splenic laceration.  He was at the outside
hospital for approximately three hours, GCS of 15, never
hemodynamically unable, hematocrit of 44.  Given 500 cc of IV
fluids and transferred by Med-Flight.  The patient complained
of left upper quadrant pain, no dyspnea.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Negative.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Only includes asthma.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

MEDICATIONS:  The patient uses a Proventil inhaler.

ALLERGIES:  Theophylline.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs on admission temperature
98.2, pulse 98, blood pressure 132/70, respirations 18,
sating 98 percent in room air.  On physical exam in no
apparent distress, lying on a stretcher with no colic,
complaining of left lower quadrant pain.  Alert and oriented
times three.  GCS 15.  Pupils equally round, and reactive to
light and accommodation.  Ear examination was negative.
Trachea midline.  Face was stable.  Lungs clear to
auscultation bilaterally, equal breath sounds.  No crepitus,
no tenderness in the chest.  Positive left upper quadrant
tenderness.  No flank ecchymosis.  No peritoneal signs.
Soft, nondistended abdomen with positive bowel sounds, no
scars.  Pelvis was stable.  Back no obvious stepoff,
nontender.  Thoracic, lumbosacral spine, C-spine nontender.
Good range of motion.  GCS 15.  Motor and sensory intact
throughout.  Guaiac negative, normal tone, normal prostate.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white blood cell count 25.5,
hematocrit 43.6, platelets 252.  Coagulation studies INR 1.2,
PTT 25.  UA was negative.  BUN and creatinine were 19 and 1.0
respectively.  Amylase 61.  Serum tox negative.  Urine tox
negative.  ABG 7.43/40/109/27/1.  The patient was typed and
crossed for six units.  Chest x-ray was performed, no
pneumothorax, no fractures.  CT abdomen at the outside
hospital showed grade 4 splenic laceration, no extravasation,
no retroperitoneal bleed, no free fluid in the abdomen.  The
patient had C-spine and TLS clearance at the outside
hospital.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the trauma ICU.
Hematocrit was obtained q.four hours.  The patient was placed
on Venodynes for DVT prophylaxis.  The patient was kept NPO
with IV fluids.  A Foley was kept in place.  The patient was
observed in the ICU where hematocrit remained in the high 30
range, approximately 37 to 39.  Hematocrit was stable
throughout his hospital stay with final hematocrit being
37.1.  The patient's chemistries and coagulation studies were
within normal limits during his stay.

The patient was transferred to the floor where Foley was
removed.  The patient was advanced to a low fat diet.  He did
complain of slight increased pain the morning of the day of
discharge, however, this pain immediately resolved.  It was
attributed to a lack of proper pain medication
administration.  The patient's pain was well controlled with
p.o. medication.  He was tolerating a regular low fat diet
prior to discharge.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient is to follow up in
trauma clinic in approximately four weeks.  The patient
should call or return to an emergency room if he experiences
any increase in pain or lightheadedness, i.e., symptoms of
anemia.  The patient was instructed to undergo only light
activity which he agreed to do for the next three to four
weeks.  The patient was agreeable to discharge upon day of
discharge.






                          DR.[**Last Name (STitle) **],[**First Name3 (LF) **] 02-349

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) **]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2118-2-1**]  19:46
T:  [**2118-2-7**]  12:22
JOB#:  [**Job Number 53876**]
