Admission Date:  [**2117-12-7**]       Discharge Date:  [**2117-12-18**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  M

Service:

ADDENDUM:
HOSPITAL COURSE:  On postoperative day number two, in
addition to the Cardiology consult (Cardiology cardioverted
the patient), a Renal consult was obtained to inquire about
the patient's rising creatinine.  At that time, it was
thought that the patient was in acute tubular necrosis, most
likely secondary to contrast and probably a brief
hypoperfusion intraoperatively.  There was no evidence of
atheroemboli in the extremities on their examination at that
time.

On postoperative day four, the patient's creatinine was noted
to come down from 2.0 to 1.8, and the patient's acute tubular
necrosis was thought to be resolving.  The patient's
milrinone was weaned, and Lopressor 25 mg by mouth was
started subsequent to intravenous boluses for transient
tachycardia.  The patient remained on a heparin drip, which
was titrated for PTT to 50 for anticoagulation for the brief
period of the atrial fibrillation and subsequent
cardioversion.  The patient's postoperative course was also
complicated by a persistent hypertension with blood pressures
to approximately systolic blood pressure equal to 180, with
mean arterial pressures of 60 to 80s.  At that time,
nitroprusside was started and eventually weaned, and
Hydralazine was continued around the clock in order to keep
the blood pressure at approximately 130s.

At this time, Physical Therapy was consulted and evaluated
the patient, and it is important to note that the patient was
on cardiopulmonary bypass and was cross-clamped for a brief
period.

By postoperative day number six, the patient was weaned off
nitroprusside completely, and the blood pressure stabilized
in the range of 100 to 150 systolic blood pressure.  At that
time as well, the patient's creatinine decreased to 1.6, and
the Renal team was satisfied that the patient's acute tubular
necrosis was resolving and signed off.  At that time, the
patient was stable, and was transferred to the Surgical
floor.

The patient maintained a low blood pressure and oxygen
saturation of 92% on 1 liter, and was diuresing
appropriately, given his small dose of twice a day lasix.

On postoperative day number nine, the patient's wires were
discontinued, and the patient was discharged home.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  Home.

FOLLOW-UP PLAN:  Follow up with primary care physician in one
week.  Follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**] in four weeks.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Norvasc 5 mg by mouth twice a day,
amiodarone 400 mg by mouth twice a day for three days, then
400 mg by mouth once daily, Hydralazine 50 mg by mouth three
times a day, Plavix 75 mg by mouth once daily, aspirin 325 mg
by mouth once daily, Zantac 150 mg by mouth once daily, lasix
20 mg by mouth twice a day, K-Dur 20 mEq by mouth twice a
day, Colace 100 mg by mouth twice a day, Lopressor 75 mg by
mouth twice a day, percocet 5/325 one to two tablets every
three hours as needed for pain.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 46815**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2117-12-19**]  17:26
T:  [**2117-12-20**]  00:41
JOB#:  [**Job Number 46816**]
