Admission Date:  [**2174-9-28**]     Discharge Date:  [**2174-10-10**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 86 year old
man with a past medical history of CHF and chronic atrial
fibrillation on Coumadin with INR of 1.9 on admission and a
recent hospital admission for pneumonia and DVT.  He was in
his usual state of health until [**9-28**] when his son noted
the sudden onset of the inability to speak and weakness in
his right hand.  EMS was called at that time and while in the
ambulance he was able to speak two to three words.  His
initial exam at [**Hospital1 69**] showed
that he was awake, alert, mute, following midline commands
and squeezing the examiner's hand.  He was able to give "yes"
and "no" answers, but could not write or read.  His right
side was noted to be weak with arm greater than face and only
slight right leg weakness.  Patient received IA tPA and his
initial NIHSS of 8 improved to 3.  His speech was not
improved.  He was only able to say, at most, two to three
dysarthric words.  While in the intensive care unit patient
had two episodes of pulmonary edema which were treated with
diuretics and improved.  He was on lisinopril on admission,
but this was discontinued because his pressure was in the
110s to 120s.  Patient was transferred to the neurology floor
on [**10-3**].  He was unable to provide his own history at
this point.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Chronic atrial fibrillation, status
post pacemaker VVI in [**2167**].  CHF with EF of 20%.  Type 2
diabetes.  Old left cerebellar and left internal capsule
infarcts.  BPH.  Chronic renal insufficiency.

MEDICATIONS:  Digoxin 0.125 mg IV q.day, insulin, Protonix,
Levaquin 250 mg p.o. q.day, Coumadin 3 mg p.o. q.h.s.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Lives with son.  [**Name (NI) **] alcohol or tobacco use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission vital signs temperature
96.6, blood pressure 120/70, pulse 84, breathing at 20, O2
sat 94% in room air.  In general, he was a well-developed,
well-nourished, elderly male sitting up in chair with NG tube
in place, following examiner with eyes.  HEENT: no evidence
of trauma.  Mucous membranes were dry.  Neck had no carotid
bruits.  Pulmonary crackles at bases bilaterally.
Cardiovascular regular, no murmurs.  Abdomen soft, nontender,
no rebound, positive bowel sounds times four.  Extremities
had 1+ pulses, no edema.  Mental status: awake and alert.
Could not test orientation secondary to language.  He had two
to three words of dysarthric output, nonfluent.  Could
comprehend and follow both midline and appendicular commands.
No repetition.  He could write individual words, but no
sentences.  Cranial nerves: he could blink to visual threat.
Extraocular muscles were intact.  Pupils were 1.5 mm
bilaterally and equally reactive.  He had right facial droop.
Hearing was intact to finger rub.  Palatal elevation was
symmetric.  Shoulder shrug head turning reduced, but
symmetric.  Tongue was midline.  On motor exam he had normal
tone and bulk throughout, no fasciculations.  Power exam
showed 4+ strength of the IP on the left, otherwise he had
5/5 strength.  He had right pronator drift.  Reflexes left
side biceps 2, triceps 2, radial 2, patella 1+, Achilles 0,
toe down; right side biceps 3+, triceps 2, radial 2, patella
1+, Achilles 0, toe down.  Sensation withdraws in all
extremities.  Coordination finger to nose, rapid alternating
movements, heel to shin intact.  No rebound.  Gait not
tested.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 12.5, hematocrit 40.1,
platelets 220.  PT 18.3, INR 2.3.  Sodium 153, potassium 4.0,
chloride 113, bicarb 29, BUN 44, creatinine 1.4.  Platelets
161.  Calcium 9, magnesium 2.4, phosphate 2.1.  Head MRI
showed a small left MCA infarct.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  While on the floor after his unit course
which was outlined above, he was transferred to the regular
neurology floor.  Sodium was very concerning, therefore, he
was given IV fluids to correct this as it was felt he was
dehydrated.  He went into CHF as a result of this fluid
administration and needed to be given an ACE inhibitor and
Lasix.  However, this increased his sodium once again.
Patient's mutism did not resolve during the hospital
admission.  He became increasingly agitated and his family
decided to make him comfort measures only.  All of his
regular medications were discontinued and he was given p.r.n.
Ativan and morphine and scopolamine patch.  Patient passed
away comfortably on [**2174-10-10**].

FINAL DIAGNOSES:
1.  Left MCA stroke.
2.  Congestive heart failure.
3.  He also keeps his initial admitting diagnoses.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Expired.






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 4821**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4822**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 5476**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2174-11-29**]  10:18
T:  [**2174-12-1**]  12:25
JOB#:  [**Job Number 93663**]
