Admission Date: [**2108-5-28**]        Discharge Date: [**2108-6-9**]

Date of Birth:  [**2036-12-3**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CME


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71-year-old female
with non-small cell lung carcinoma, obstructive-sleep apnea,
COPD, and obesity, who was admitted on [**2108-5-28**] to the
Medical team with report of months of chronic dyspnea, two
weeks of increased shortness of breath associated with a
recent medication change of decreased Lasix dose around that
time.  She also reported positive bilateral lower extremity
edema and a dry cough, but denied any fevers and chills.

On presentation to the Emergency Department, the patient was
afebrile, tachycardic with a heart rate of 110, and blood
pressure of 119/60.  On 4 liters of oxygen by nasal cannula,
the patient's O2 saturation was 95 percent.  Based on
examination and chest x-ray findings of small bilateral
pleural effusions, the patient was treated by the Medical
team for presumed CHF exacerbation.  She was noted to have
decreased symptoms with IV diuresis after being given first
60 IV and then 20 mg of IV Lasix.  The following day the
patient had an echocardiogram, which demonstrated a large
pericardial effusion circumferential without any signs of
tamponade physiology.

The patient was then reexamined by the medical team.  On
examination was without jugular venous distention or pulsus
paradoxus.  The diuretics and ACE inhibitor that she had been
presented on were discontinued.  Patient was then taken for
pericardiocentesis on [**5-30**] and transferred to the [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]
service.  On pericardiocentesis, there was drained
approximately 800 cc of hemorrhagic fluid.  The postoperative
course was complicated by atrial fibrillation with a rapid
ventricular rate, which returned to [**Location 213**] sinus rhythm with
one dose of diltiazem and no other intervention.  Amiodarone
load was given and then continued at 400 mg b.i.d. for seven
days, then 400 mg once a day up to a total of 21 days.

On [**2108-6-2**], the patient underwent a pericardial window and
bilateral chest tube placement for pleural effusions.
Postoperative course from that, the patient had a fever to
102.6.  Was treated with vancomycin, levofloxacin, and Flagyl
for presumed pneumonia.  The chest tube output was minimal
draining some serosanguinous fluid.  Patient also had
transient hypotension to 80/40s, treated transiently with
Levophed drip.  The etiology of hypotension was questionable
potentially due to medications.

Patient  then had a chest CT on [**6-2**], which demonstrated
right upper lobe opacities posteriorly, bilateral pleural
effusions right greater than left and a moderate pericardial
effusion that was present.  The effusion on the right side
appeared to be loculated and fibrotic, and on the left side,
there is a small pneumothorax that was well loculated.  The
patient had been intubated during the pericardial window and
was extubated on the 16th, maintained on BiPAP overnight
thereafter.  At that point, the patient was transferred to
the MICU service for continued management of the dyspnea.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Lung cancer non-small cell status post chemotherapy and
   radiation therapy as well as initial resection.  The
   patient also had an endobronchial invasion with the tumor
   and is now status post stent placement, which was then
   later found to be migrated and was taken out by
   Interventional Pulmonology.
2. COPD with a FEV1 of 0.39.
3. CHF.  She has a severely depressed left ventricular
   ejection fraction.
4. Obstructive-sleep apnea on nighttime BiPAP.
5. Hypertension.
6. Diabetes.
7. Obesity.
8. Hypercholesterolemia.


PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1. Status post appendectomy.
2. Status post cholecystectomy.
3. Status post total abdominal hysterectomy.


ALLERGIES:  Codeine.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient was a 40 pack year tobacco
smoker.  Denies any IV drug use or alcohol abuse.  The
patient lives at home with her second husband.

LAB VALUES ON TRANSFER FROM THE CCU TO THE MICU TEAM:  The
white blood cell count was 9.5, hematocrit was 29.9, platelet
count was 239.  On chemistry panel, the sodium is 141,
potassium 3.6, chloride 101, bicarb 32, BUN 21, creatinine
0.6, glucose 170, calcium 8.3, magnesium 1.9, phosphorus 3.3.
At the time, pathology had been sent off on the pericardial
tissue as well as pericardial and pleural fluid.

Chest x-ray done postoperatively on the 16th still
demonstrated bilateral pleural effusions, but no change from
the prior day.

As far as microbiology data, the patient had no significant
organisms grow from blood cultures, urine cultures, sputum
cultures, or pericardial or pleural fluid.

Vital signs on transfer to the MICU team were a temperature
of 96, pulse of 107, blood pressure 94/42, respiratory rate
20, and pulse oximetry of 96 percent on 10 liters of O2 by
face mask.  On examination, this patient is a pleasant
elderly female, who was in mild respiratory distress, but
speaking in full sentences.  HEENT:  Mucous membranes were
moist.  There was no jugular venous distention.  There was a
right internal jugular central line, and mild erythema, and
mild tenderness, but no pus.  Cardiovascular:  The heart
sounds were distant, but regular, rate, and rhythm, normal
S1, S2.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  Pulmonary exam:
Breath sounds were audible bilaterally with decreased breath
sounds at the bases, occasional wheeze was noted.  Abdominal
exam was protuberant, but nondistended, soft, positive bowel
sounds, and nontender.  Extremities were warm with 2 plus
pulses bilaterally bilateral lower extremities.  No lower
extremity edema was noted.  There was some chronic venous
stasis changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The hospital course post transfer from the
CCU to MICU team is as follows:
1. For the patient's dyspnea, the patient's dyspnea improved
   status post pericardial window.  The bilateral chest tubes
   had minimal drainage and it was felt that the right chest
   was unsuccessful in draining the loculated pleural
   effusion that remained towards the right base on the CAT
   scan done on the [**12-3**].

At the time of this dictation, Cardiothoracic Surgery final
input as to the effusion was that no further intervention
would be potential for draining this effusion.  At the time
of this dictation, the MICU team had also asked for the input
of Interventional Pulmonology and Interventional Radiology to
decide whether the effusion, which was thought to be a small
component or possible moderate component to this patient's
dyspnea would be amenable to any drainage or if we should
hold off until any further worsening of the effusion should
happen in the future.  It was noted by CT Surgery that no
pleurodesis would be possible at this time.

The pericardial effusion did end up showing a cytology
positive for malignant cells, therefore demonstrating the
patient with Stage IV lung cancer.  A followup echocardiogram
was also done two days after surgery, which demonstrated a
small pericardial effusion, which was thus not thought not to
be further contributing to the patient's dyspnea.  There is
also consideration that this patient may have thromboembolic
disease, therefore a CTA was attempted twice.  This study was
suboptimal due to bolus timing of the contrast dye.  It
showed no massive pulmonary embolus, but it did not show the
subsegmental or segmental pulmonary arteries.  Given the fact
the patient was not amenable to anticoagulation, we did get
lower extremity ultrasounds done, which showed no evidence of
clots.

For the possibility of CHF as a component of the dyspnea,
this patient was diuresed, however, on diuresis, the patient
entered atrial fibrillation, which was controlled with a dose
of diltiazem and some IV fluids.  Therefore, the goal was to
keep this patient approximately even as far as fluid balance
goes.

For his COPD, there was not thought to be a major
contribution to her dyspnea.  The patient was stopped with
albuterol due to anxiety and tachycardia and kept on Atrovent
nebulizers MDI.  Steroids were not started, and for the
pneumonia, the patient finished a seven day course of
vancomycin, levo, and Flagyl.

1