Admission Date:  [**2137-10-22**]       Discharge Date:  [**2137-10-28**]

Date of Birth:   [**2105-4-12**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 32-year-old
white male with a chief complaint of increasing fatigue with
severe exertion on exercise.  The patient has a congenital
bicuspid aortic valve diagnosed years ago and has noticed
increased fatigue when exercising heavily.  He did not
complain of any chest pain, chest pressure or shortness of
breath when seen on [**10-16**] in the PAT.

Cardiac echocardiogram done on TTE showed an ejection
fraction of 55%, bicuspid AV valve with 1.9 cm2 area, mild
global hypokinesis with 1+ mitral regurgitation, moderate
left ventricular hypertrophy, 3+ aortic insufficiency, mild
aortic stenosis, and dilated left ventricle on [**2137-10-13**].

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  1.  Excision of facial cyst, right
neck.  2.  Drainage of prostate abscess.  3.  Tonsillectomy.
4.  Right orbital fracture with plate.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis,
asymptomatic.  H. pylori three months prior to admission.
Depression.  Remote OxyContin/Cocaine abuse.  Current
marijuana use, frequently.  Old nasal fracture.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  ................. 450 q.d., Prozac
40 q.d., Propecia q.d., Vitamin B q.d.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

Last dental exam prior to admission was dental extraction on
[**2137-10-11**].

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father who passed away of cirrhosis at age
66.  Mother is alive and healthy at age 66.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  PT caterer.  He quit tobacco 11 years ago.
The patient lives with mother and sister.  The patient had
prior alcohol abuse; he has been sober for three years.
Positive prior use of cocaine; he has been sober for four
years.  Positive marijuana use,five times a week.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  General:  The patient had some decrease
in weight on admission with H. pylori, at about 13 lbs over
the past few months.  The patient was a very active athlete.
Negative for skin lesions at this time.  HEENT:  Disposable
contacts.  [**Name (NI) **] nasal fracture.  Respiratory:  The patient
denied asthma and pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, and shortness of breath.  Cardiovascular:  No
palpitations.  No syncope.  No paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.
No congestive heart failure.  GI:  Positive for H. pylori.
Negative for nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.  Negative for
melena.  Negative for gallbladder or liver disease.  GU:
Negative for renal disease or calculi.  Remote prostate
abscess.  Musculoskeletal:  Left ankle fracture.  Right arm
fracture.  Right wrist fracture.  Positive for peripheral
vascular disease.  Negative for claudication.  Neurological:
Negative for transient ischemic attack or cerebrovascular
accident.  Psychiatric:  Positive for depression.  Endocrine:
Negative for diabetes mellitus.  Negative bleeding disorders.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission the patient
was afebrile, heart rate 67 and regular, blood pressure
148/52, 6 ft 4 in tall, weight 225 lbs.  General:  The
patient had a very fit, athletic build.  Skin:  No obvious
disease or lesions.  HEENT:  Pupils equal, round and reactive
to light.  Extraocular movements intact.  Nonicteric.  Not
injected.  Neck:  Without jugular venous distention.  Murmur
radiates to bilateral carotids.  He had a healed cyst scar.
Chest:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Heart:  S1 and
S2.  Regular, rate and rhythm.  He had a three out of six
systolic murmur with diastolic component.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended.  He had hypoactive bowel sounds.
Negative hepatosplenomegaly or CVA tenderness.  Extremities:
Warm and well perfused without clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.
No varicosities noted.  Neurological:  Cranial nerves II-XII
grossly intact.  Nonfocal.  Excellent strength in all four
extremities.  Pulses:  2+ bilaterally throughout femoral,
dorsalis pedis, posterior tibial and radial.  Carotid bruit
murmur radiated to bilateral carotids heard.

LABORATORY DATA:  Electrocardiogram showed left ventricular
hypertrophy, sinus rhythm at 51 beats per minute, nonspecific
ST/T changes.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was prepped for aortic valve
replacement on [**2137-10-21**].  Prior to AVR, the patient
had a bronchoscopy for left mainstem thick mucosal secretions
which were occluded and aspirated.

The patient was taken to the operating room on [**2137-10-22**], for limited access aortic valve replacement with a 27
mm [**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor First Name 7624**] bovine prosthesis utilizing
cardiopulmonary bypass.

The patient was taken to the operating room with a
preoperative diagnosis of 1) progressive aortic
insufficiency, 2) new left ventricular dilatation, and 3)
progressive fatigue.

Findings intraoperatively showed a congenitally bicuspid
aortic valve with fusion of the right and noncoronary cusps.
The aorta was not enlarged and was quite thin-walled and
elastic.  TEE intraoperatively showed excellent
biventricular function with a well-seated, well-functioning
prosthesis after replacement.

The patient did very well postoperatively and was transferred
to the unit as mentioned before.  He was extubated on
postoperative day #1.

At that time, the patient's hematocrit was 30.4; however, the
patient had an acute hematocrit drop on postoperative day #2
to 19 with a concurrent pneumothorax seen on chest x-ray.
The patient maintained saturations at 98% on room air,
however, was kept on oxygen for prophylactic therapy, and
chest tube was elected not to be placed because of the
patient's clinical and stable status.  The patient was also
elected not to be transfused secondary to the fact that the
patient was clinically asymptomatic and ambulating on the
floor.  Hematocrit and chest x-rays were taken daily and
monitored closely.

On postoperative day #3, the patient's hematocrit was 18.4,
and he was started on Vitamin C and Iron.  Chest x-ray showed
resolving pneumothorax.

On postoperative day #4, the patient was transfused 3 U of
blood and continued to have oxygen saturations at 98% on room
air.




                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern4) 10197**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2137-10-28**]  13:39
T:  [**2137-10-28**]  13:42
JOB#:  [**Job Number 92804**]
