Admission Date:  [**2119-1-4**]       Discharge Date:  [**2119-1-20**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  F

Service:

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  Coronary artery disease.

PROCEDURE PERFORMED:  Coronary artery bypass graft times two.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58-year-old
woman with a history of insulin-dependent diabetes,
hypertension, dyslipidemia, a family history of coronary
artery disease, and recent commencement of hemodialysis, with
dyspnea on exertion prior to admission.

She was formerly evaluated in the hospital on [**2118-12-20**], at which time an echocardiogram revealed an ejection
fraction of 60%, mild mitral regurgitation, and moderate
pulmonary hypertension.  A stress test on [**12-20**] also
revealed a mixed anterolateral wall defect.  An enzyme
evaluation at that time revealed a troponin of between 1.5
and 2.4 with normal creatine kinase levels.  At this time,
she was referred to the [**Hospital1 69**]
for cardiac catheterization.

The results of the cardiac catheterization revealed a
right-dominant system revealing severe 3-vessel disease.  The
left main coronary artery had a 20% proximal stenosis.  The
left anterior descending artery had a proximal 86% lesion.
There was a 60% to 70% stenosis in the mid portion of the
left anterior descending artery.  The left circumflex was
diffusely diseased.  The large second obtuse marginal was
totally occluded proximally.  The right coronary artery was a
large vessel with serial 80% stenosis extending into the
right posterior descending artery and right TLV.  The left
ventricular end-diastolic pressure was 25 mmHg.  There was no
gradient across the aortic valve.  A left ventriculography
revealed an ejection fraction of 60%.  There were no wall
motion abnormalities.  A catheter-induced left bundle-branch
block was noted.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (At the time of initial evaluation,
the patient had a past medical history significant for)
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Diabetes.
3.  History of cerebrovascular accident in the distant past;
in specific, this was deemed a transient ischemic attack
approximately 11 years ago without recurrence.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:   (Her past surgical history is
significant for)
1.  Cesarean section.
2.  Arteriovenous fistula.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Her admission medications included
insulin, Nephrocaps, Neurontin, fluoxetine, aspirin,
metoprolol, Pravastatin, and amlodipine.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient had an unremarkable social
history.

FAMILY HISTORY:   The patient had an unremarkable family
history.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On physical
examination, the patient was alert and oriented times three.
Her lungs were clear to auscultation.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed her heart was regular in rate and
rhythm.  The abdomen was soft and nontender with positive
bowel sounds.  The extremities had no clubbing, cyanosis, or
edema.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to
the operating room on [**2119-1-4**]; at which time she
underwent a coronary artery bypass graft times two with a
left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending
artery and a saphenous vein graft to the ramus intermedius.
The patient tolerated the general anesthesia well.  The
procedure was performed by Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 70**] and was
assisted by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 12373**], and [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] (DAC), and N.
Tepperow (NP).

Postoperatively, the patient was stable without the need for
pressors.  She was intubated with propofol for sedation at
that time.  Overnight, she did have hypotension and was
started on epinephrine at 0.3 mcg.

She was seen by the Renal Service on [**2119-1-5**] and was
started on continuous venovenous hemodialysis for her
end-stage renal disease.  She tolerated this well and was
monitored in the Intensive Care Unit at this time.

On [**1-5**], she was alert and oriented times three and was
following commands.  At that time, she was complaining of
intermittent right hand numbness and weakness; of which she
did have a history of.  It should be noted that she is
legally blind, and prior to surgery lived alone and lived
independently.

On postoperative day two, events were significant for an
increased Neo-Synephrine requirement to 0.2.  Her white blood
cell count at this time was 24,000 with a hematocrit of 34.6.
The electrolytes were within normal limits for the patient on
dialysis.  Venovenous hemodialysis was continued at that
time.

She did have an event on [**1-6**] significant for going
into rapid atrial fibrillation.  She also had some new
left-sided weakness in the upper extremity greater than the
in the lower extremity.  At this time, the Neurology team
evaluated the patient and a STAT computed tomography
angiogram was done.  At that time, the computed tomography
angiogram revealed a partial occlusion of the right middle
cerebral artery past the bifurcation.  This was deemed to be
consistent with a cardioembolic event leading to this
thrombus in the right middle cerebral artery.  There was flow
beyond this thrombus.  The patient had some hepatic
dysfunction at the time, and an INR of 2.3 was noted.
Therefore, the patient was not started on anticoagulation.
However, her Dilantin level was checked and an
electroencephalogram was obtained which was normal at that
time.  Also, this was significant for the patient being
intubated after becoming apneic and having a decrease in
mental status.  She was cardioverted as well on [**1-6**].

There was no further intervention recommended by the
Neurology/Stroke Service at that time.  For a decreased
cardiac output and index, she was started on milrinone in
addition to her epinephrine and Neo-Synephrine.

Given her lack of motor response to pain, a STAT head
computed tomography was done which revealed no infarctions
and no new strokes visible on computed tomography scan.

The patient continued on continuous venovenous hemofiltration
hemodialysis and was screened for rehabilitation services as
well.  She did have a temperature of 102.7 degrees Fahrenheit
on [**1-8**] and was started on levofloxacin and vancomycin
for broad spectrum coverage and was pan-cultured at that
time.

Due to her increase in liver function tests, a Hepatobiliary
consultation was obtained.  The patient was also started on
Keppra at 500 mg by mouth twice per day.  A hepatic
ultrasound was obtained which revealed normal arterial and
venous hepatic flow, and no other signs of liver disease.
There was cholelithiasis without signs of cholecystitis.  The
INR peaked in the middle 3s and then did begin to decline.
It was felt that her liver disease could be due to a vitamin
K deficiency or possibly due to rhabdomyolysis.  She was
continued on aspirin and Plavix with regard to her
thromboembolic stroke.

Over the following two to three days, she was continued on
continuous venovenous hemofiltration hemodialysis.  On
[**1-11**], her sedation was weaned to completely off.  Her
liver function tests were trending down, and her INR was
correcting.

On [**1-14**], the patient continued to have respiratory
failure, and it was deemed that a tracheostomy was
appropriate for maximal ventilatory weaning.  For this
reason, consent was obtained, and a tracheostomy was created
percutaneously by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 951**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 952**] on the evening of [**2119-1-14**].  All her culture data remained negative throughout
her hospitalization, and her vancomycin was weaned off.
However, a chest x-ray revealed continued left basilar
peripheral opacity consistent with atelectasis.  Given her
low-grade fevers, she was continued on levofloxacin.  The
patient was taken off continuous venovenous hemofiltration
hemodialysis, and hemodialysis was started on [**1-14**].
The patient was also started on Nephrocaps at that time.

Over the two days from [**1-14**] to [**1-16**], the
patient's cardiogenic drips were weaned off, and she remained
stable.

Based on continued failure to thrive and inability to take by
mouth, a Dobbhoff 