Admission Date:  [**2131-4-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2131-4-27**]

Date of Birth:   [**2087-2-12**]       Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine Intensive Care Unit

This dictation will cover hospital stay through [**4-27**].
Note, the remainder of hospital stay will be dictated by
subsequent intern.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 44 year old male with
a past medical history significant for multiple medical
problems including coronary artery disease, status post four
vessel coronary artery bypass graft, atrial fibrillation on
Coumadin, end stage renal disease on hemodialysis, diabetes
mellitus, and left embolic middle cerebral artery
cerebrovascular accident, who presents from nursing home with
hypotension and bright red blood per rectum.  Per nursing
home report, the patient had a one day history of dark red
blood per rectum.  He was incontinence of stool and stool
amount was unable to further be quantified.  His blood
pressure dropped to the 80s systolic and he was also noted to
be febrile to 102.0.  No abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting or
hematemesis was noted.  The patient had been noted to have a
recent INR of 1.6 to 1.8 with a hematocrit of 25, down from
his baseline of 29.  Upon arrival in the Emergency
Department, the patient was tachycardiac with heart rate in
the 120s to 140s with a rhythm of atrial fibrillation.  His
systolic blood pressure was in the 100s.  His hematocrit was
27.5 and his INR was 2.0.  Soon after arrival to the
Emergency Department he had two episodes of dark red blood
per rectum with subsequent drops in his blood pressure to a
systolic of 70s to 80s.  He received 1 liter of normal saline
and 2 units of packed red blood cells.  He also received 30
ml of Proplex to reverse his INR, in addition to 10 mg
subcutaneous Vitamin K.  Proplex was chosen given the
patient's anuric end stage renal disease and concern for
volume overload.  The patient also received Protonix 40 mg
intravenously.  Following volume resuscitation his blood
pressure increased to 110 systolic.  He had an nasogastric
lavage which showed no evidence of blood or clot.  The
patient was then admitted to the Medicine Intensive Care Unit
for further management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  End stage renal disease on
hemodialysis, anuric; diabetes mellitus; diabetic neuropathy;
coronary artery disease, status post myocardial infarction;
four vessel coronary artery bypass graft in [**2127**]; congestive
heart failure with unknown ejection fraction; peripheral
vascular disease; dry gangrene; chronic lower extremity
edema, status post left middle cerebral artery, stroke with
residual right hemiparesis and Wernicke's syndrome; bilateral
carotid stenosis, less than 40%, history of
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection in
sacrum on Linezolid since [**4-17**]; hyperparathyroidism;
calciphylaxis; chronic anemia; decubitus ulcers; status
post pneumonia.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Nursing home resident, sister guardian, no
current tobacco or alcohol use.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Mom with cerebrovascular accident, Dad with
myocardial infarction at age 50.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lopressor 100 t.i.d., Aspirin 325
q. day, Coumadin 2.5 q. day, Digoxin .125 q. 72 hours,
Lipitor 40 mg q.h.s., Imdur 60 mg q. day, Risperdal .75
q.h.s., 70/30 insulin, 32 units in the morning, 30 units in
the evening, Zoloft 25 q.h.s., Colace and Senokot q. day,
Verapamil 40 mg q.i.d., Renagel 4000 mg t.i.d., Colchicine .6
q. day, Linezolid 600 b.i.d., started on [**4-17**].

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission temperature was 101.5,
heart rate 118, blood pressure 101/65, respiratory rate 16,
oxygen saturation 100% on 2 liters of oxygen.  General:
Somnolent, confused, garbled speech in no acute distress.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils equal, round and
reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular movements
intact, sclera anicteric.  Dry mucous membranes.  Neck:  Soft
and supple, no jugulovenous distension.  Cardiovascular:
Tachycardiac, irregular rate and rhythm, no murmurs.
Pulmonary:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen,
obese, soft, nontender, positive bowel sounds auscultated.
Extremities:  Bilateral lower extremity and feet bandages.
Multiple large eschar to calciphylactic lesions on bilateral
thighs, groins, buttocks and sacral decubitus ulcer.  No
grossly purulent discharge or erythema noted from leg lesion.
Neurological:  Confused with waxing and [**Doctor Last Name 688**] mental status.
Positive confabulation.  Follows simple commands.  Moves
bilateral lower extremities and left upper extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count 11.8, hematocrit
27.5, platelets 391, PT 17.3, PTT 28.3 with an INR of 2.0.
Sodium 145, potassium 4.9, chloride 105, bicarbonate 31, BUN
34, creatinine 3.9, glucose 72.  Lactate of 1.4.  Liver
function tests were within normal limits.  Electrocardiogram,
atrial fibrillation, read of 136.  Chest x-ray, no effusion
or infiltrate.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Gastrointestinal bleed - The patient
presented from the nursing home with bright red blood per
rectum.  He initially had an nasogastric lavage which was
negative.  He was evaluated by the Gastroenterology Service.
He underwent endoscopy which showed no acute lesions.  He
then underwent colonoscopy which did show residual old blood,
however, no clear source of bleeding was able to be
localized.  The patient was placed on a high dose proton pump
inhibitor.  Serial hematocrits were followed and he was
transfused as needed.  In addition, he was taken off of his
anticoagulation.  The patient's presenting gastrointestinal
bleed did occur in the context of an elevated INR on Coumadin
therapy.  Initially his INR was reversed with Proplex.  He
also received Vitamin K with normalization of his INR off
anticoagulation therapy.  He did have no further episodes of
bleeding.  Initially plans were made for a repeat colonoscopy
to further look for a bleeding source.  However, following
discussion with the family, it was decided that given the
patient's multiple medical issues, further colonoscopy or
gastrointestinal studies would not be pursued at this time.

2.  Hypertension - The patient presented with acute
hypotension, presumably due to hypovolemia due to his
gastrointestinal bleed.  He was fluid-resuscitated with blood
and intravenous fluids and his blood pressure responded
accordingly.  He continued to receive blood and fluids as
needed throughout the hospital stay.

3.  Gram negative rod bacteremia - The patient was initially
febrile at presentation and was cultured with no organism
isolated.  He then was afebrile until [**4-25**] when he again
spiked a fever.  Subsequent blood culture did grow out gram
negative rods.  Given the patient's extensive calciphylactic
lesions on his lower extremity and potential for
contamination with stool given the fecal incontinence he was
thought to have likely seated his blood with bowel organisms
via his lower extremity lesions.  He was started on Zosyn
with resolution of his fever on antibiotics.  Cultures
continued to be followed with plans to further tailor his
antibiotic therapy once an organism is isolated.  He received
intravenous fluids as needed to support his blood pressure.
He also received blood as needed for sepsis protocol.
Cortisol level was sent which did show appropriate renal
response.  Plan to continue to follow up cultures.

4.  Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus - Patient
admitted with known Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus in his sacral decubitus ulcer.  He had been on
Linezolid.  He was switched to Vancomycin at admission and
was continued on this.  No further Methicillin-resistant
Staphylococcus aureus was isolated from blood cultures or
wound cultures.  His Vancomycin was renally dosed, given his
renal failure.

5.  Atrial fibrillation - The patient was admitted with a
history of atrial fibrillation for which he had been on
Lopressor for rate control and Coumadin anticoagulation.
Given his gastrointestinal bleed as detailed above, he was
taken off of the Coumadin.  Initially his Lopressor was held
given his hypotension, however, as this resolved, he was
slowly started back on his Lopressor and his d