Admission Date:  [**2129-6-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2129-6-15**]

Date of Birth:   [**2066-9-1**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 62-year-old gentleman
presented with two week history of epigastric discomfort
ruled in for myocardial infarction and had an episode of
V-fib that responded to cardioversion.  He was transferred
into [**Hospital1 69**] for cardiac
catheterization, which showed 80% left anterior descending
artery lesion, 40% diagonal lesion, 60% circumflex lesion,
OM-2 30% lesion, OM-3 30% lesion, a 50% right coronary artery
lesion with a 30% PDA lesion, and an ejection fraction of
27%.

On Cath Lab an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed for his
ventricular dysfunction and severe three-vessel disease.  He
is referred to Cardiothoracic Surgery Service for evaluation
of CABG.

Preoperative laboratory work was white count of 9.3,
hematocrit 42.5.  Sodium 137, K 4.4, chloride 102, CO2 27,
BUN 18, creatinine 1.1 with a blood sugar of 219.

Past medical history includes hypertension and
hypercholesterolemia as well as bilateral kidney stone
removal and appendectomy.  Patient also reported a two small
purulent nodal areas in his abdomen and his left thigh,
non-insulin dependent-diabetes mellitus.

He had no known allergies.

Medications on admission were Zocor, Cozaar, Glyburide,
Glucophage, and was now on IV Integrilin when seen by Cardiac
Surgery.

On examination, his blood pressure was 107/64 with a heart
rate of 71.  He had no carotid bruits.  Heart was regular,
rate, and rhythm.  His lungs were clear bilaterally.  His
abdominal examination was benign.  He had no varicose veins
and had distal pulses present in his feet.

His electrocardiogram showed Q waves in V1 through V3 as well
as ST depressions in V4, V5, and 6, and aVL.

He will referred to Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**].  On [**6-9**], he
underwent coronary artery bypass grafting x4 with a LIMA to
the left anterior descending artery, a vein graft to the PDA,
a vein graft to diagonal-1 and vein graft to OM-2, who was
transferred to Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit in stable
condition.

On postoperative day one, he continued on his perioperative
Vancomycin and was on the following drips:  Neo-Synephrine at
1 mcg/kg/min, nitroglycerin at 0.25 mcg/kg/min, milrinone at
0.25 mcg/kg/min, and insulin drip for glucose coverage.  He
was extubated the night of operation and the following
morning was in sinus rhythm in the 90s with a blood pressure
of 95/43.  Cardiac index of 2.6 with an intra-aortic balloon
pump at 1:1.  He remained on a face mask with postoperative
laboratories of a hematocrit of 27.5, K of 4.8, and BUN of
18, and creatinine of 0.8.  His heart was regular, rate, and
rhythm.  His respiratory sounds were slightly coarse.  He had
dopplerable pulses in his feet with no signs of ischemia in
his legs.

The plain was to discontinue his milrinone first and try to
wean his balloon later.  He remained in the Intensive Care
Unit.  Diuresis was not started pending his hemodynamic
status following drips and balloon removal.

On postoperative day two, his balloon was removed.  His chest
tubes were removed.  He remained only on a Neo-Synephrine
drip at 0.75 mcg/kg/min.  He was saturating well on nasal
cannula with a good blood pressure and was slightly
tachycardic at 106, but his Lopressor was held until he was
off his Neo-Synephrine and he started his oral medications.
He was transferred 2 units of blood for his hematocrit of
20.8.

He was seen by physical therapy for evaluation and case
management.  On postoperative day three, his hematocrit rose
to 25 after transfusion.  He was restarted on his oral sugar
medications.  He remained tachycardic in sinus rhythm at 105
with a good blood pressure.  He was started on Lopressor 12.5
[**Hospital1 **].  His diet was advanced.  His Foley was removed.  He
began his Lasix diuresis and was transferred to the floor.

On postoperative day four, he continued with his Lopressor
and diuresis.  Remained now in sinus rhythm at 82 with a good
blood pressure.  Hematocrit holding at 24.1 with a BUN of 14
and creatinine of 0.6.  He was alert and oriented.  He was on
po pain medications.  He continues diuresis.

On postoperative day five, he continued to do well and to
improve.  He was ambulating.  His pacing wires were removed.
His incisions were clean, dry, and intact.  His lungs were
clear bilaterally.  He was sating 92% on room air.  He was
receiving Percocet for po pain.

On [**6-15**], postoperative day six, he was discharged to
home in stable condition with instructions to followup with
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], his primary care physician [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] [**1-24**] weeks, and
follow up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 1537**], his surgeon in four weeks at the
office.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 mg po q day, Docusate 100
mg po bid, Glyburide 5 mg po q day, metformin 500 mg po bid,
Lopressor 50 mg po bid, Zocor 40 mg po q day, ibuprofen 600
mg po prn q8h, Percocet 1-2 tablets po prn q4-6h for pain.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Status post coronary artery bypass grafting times four.
2. Non-insulin dependent-diabetes mellitus.
3. Hypertension.
4. Hypercholesterolemia.
5. Status post bilateral kidney stone removal.
6. Status post appendectomy.

Again, he was transferred home in stable condition on [**2129-6-15**].






                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) 275**] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 1539**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 1540**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 76**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2129-8-17**]  13:02
T:  [**2129-8-23**]  04:15
JOB#:  [**Job Number 43557**]
