Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 68268**]
Admission Date: [**2179-10-24**]
Discharge Date: [**2179-11-15**]
Date of Birth:  [**2136-9-16**]
Sex:  M
Service:  TRA


ADDENDUM:  This is continued discharge summary dictation.

DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES:  [**2179-10-24**]: The patient trauma x-
rays PA and pelvis which showed multiple rib fractures on the
right and anterior pneumothoraces right greater than left,
bilateral basilar opacities that could be pulmonary
contusions and atelectasis, pneumomediastinum, endotracheal
tube and NG tube in standard position. CT recommended.

On [**2179-10-24**] CT of the head without contrast showed no
acute hemorrhage or fractures. Blood was within the maxillary
sinuses and nasopharynx, status post right temporal
craniectomy and a large left parietal scalp laceration.

On [**2179-10-24**] CT of the C-spine without contrast showed
pneumomediastinum, but no acute cervical spine fractures or
dislocations identified.

CT of the chest with contrast on [**2179-10-24**] shows
peritoneal air, mediastinal air, right anterior diaphragmatic
defect, bilateral pneumothoraces, multiple rib fractures on
the right, and spinous process fractures of T3, T4 and T5.
Also, a T10 chip fracture with slight anterior widening of
the vertebral body at this site, ligamentous injury
suspected. MRI recommended. Also, a left adrenal probable
adenoma not completely characterized by CT. Have a CT of the
chest, abdomen and pelvis.

On [**2179-10-24**] wrist films show a hamate fracture with a
dorsally displaced fragment of the right hamate bone.

Echo on [**2179-10-24**] shows left ventricular wall
thicknesses and cavity size are normal, basal half of the
inferior sputum and anterolateral walls contract well, and
free wall motion is normal, trivial pericardial effusion
noted.

On [**2179-10-25**] portable chest x-ray shows right chest
tube. This was done secondary to desaturation and chest tube
manipulation. Shows a slightly more peripheral oriented chest
tube. Also, a right paramediastinal density; could be
atelectasis, pneumonia or secondary to chest tube
manipulation. Continue followup recommended.

On [**2179-10-26**] shows resolved pneumomediastinum and no
pneumothorax on the right side.

On [**2179-10-25**] an EKG was performed which was sinus
rhythm at 75, a right bundle branch block, possible prior
inferior myocardial infarction. QTc was 477.

On [**2179-10-26**] the patient was to evaluate for possible
pneumonia or pulmonary contusion. There was slight worsening
of the left perihilar haziness which could have been due to
edema or aspiration, and the rib fractures were unchanged.

The patient had a CT of the upper extremity without contrast
on [**2179-10-26**] showing a triangular radiopaque foreign
body in the dorsal soft tissues of the wrist associated with
soft tissue swelling and laceration. Represents probable
piece of glass. No evidence of wrist fracture.

On [**2179-10-27**] CTA of the chest with and without
contrast and with reconstructions show:
1.  Large pulmonary embolism in the left main, upper and
    lower pulmonary arteries extending into the lower lobe
    segmental arteries.
2.  Small right pneumothorax, resolved left pneumothorax.
3.  Patchy opacities within the right lung that could
    represent contusion or aspiration.
4.  New left pleural effusion, stable small pericardial
    effusion.
5.  Multiple fractures as noted on previous studies.
6.  Left adrenal adenoma.
7.  Low attenuation in the spleen, likely a benign finding
    such as hemangioma.
8.  Resolved pneumomediastinum.

On [**2179-10-27**] bilateral lower extremity vein ultrasound
shows no DVT.

Multiple chest x-rays were taken over the course of the next
few days; of which no visible pneumothorax was seen.

On [**2179-10-30**] MRI of the T-spine without contrast shows
signal changes in the anterior aspect of the T10 vertebral
body and T9-T10 intervertebral disc indicative of trauma at
this level with disruption of the anterior longitudinal
ligament. No evidence of widening in the interspinous
distance seen to indicate rupture of the ligamentum flavum or
posterior longitudinal ligaments. No evidence of intraspinal
hematoma were seen.

Multiple chest x-rays were taken between [**10-31**] to
[**11-6**] to evaluate the patient's status regarding his
fluid balance state as the patient had difficulty with
pulmonary edema. The last of which -- on [**11-6**] -- showed
resolving pulmonary edema, and marked improvement in the
edema, and normalization of fluid balance, residual
contusions were still seen laterally in the left lower lobe,
and rib fractures were continued to be noted.

The patient was post central line placement on [**2179-11-7**] showing no pneumothorax, and the tip of the catheter was
placed appropriately over the lower SVC.

On [**2179-11-9**] the patient had a chest x-ray showing
improving pulmonary edema and marked improved aeration in the
left lung.

The patient had a KUB of his abdomen on [**2179-11-11**]
which showed no evidence of an IVC filter. Otherwise, normal
abdomen.

On [**2179-11-10**] the patient had bilateral lower extremity
ultrasounds which showed no evidence of DVT; and it showed
patent femoral, superficial femoral and popliteal veins in
preparation for an IVC filter placement.

Also noted on [**2179-11-2**] was a bedside swallow study
which showed no signs of aspiration and functional oral and
pharyngeal swallowing.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted from the emergency
department to the trauma SICU. The patient remained intubated
once in the SICU. Studies were done as above. Orthopaedic
surgery was consulted in addition to orthopaedic spine
surgery. In addition to plastic surgery for the patient's
hand.

On [**2179-10-24**] a bronchoscopy was performed which allowed
clear visualization and showed no evidence of intratracheal
or intrapulmonary injury. EGD was also performed; and the
stomach, esophagus and oropharynx were clearly visualized
without any evidence of hemorrhage or luminal compromise.
There was no gastric injury noted. The patient's head
laceration was sutured on [**2179-10-24**] in addition to the
laceration on the right thigh. Two 3-0 Vicryl sutures were
used to reapproximate the deep tissue, and then the wound was
opposed with five 3-0 Nylon vertical mattress sutures. No
complications. No blood loss. No dressing was applied.
Neurosurgery was also consulted. The patient was started on
Protonix and maintained throughout his course of stay. While
intubated the patient's sedation was controlled with fentanyl
and propofol sliding scales to sedation. His right femoral
line was discontinued on [**2179-10-24**]. Chest tube output
was monitored. The patient remained ventilated on assist
control 40% with a PEEP of 12. The patient's blood pressure
was controlled with a wide range of medications, including
enalapril.

On [**2179-10-24**] on admission to the ICU the patient was
noted to have 2 peripheral IV's. He had propofol running and
intubated with endotracheal tube. He had a chest tube on the
right side to low continuous wall suction. He had a cervical
collar. He was on logroll precautions. The bronchoscopy and
endoscopy were performed as above. His neurological exam;
unable to assess orientation, spontaneous movement in all
extremities, followed simple verbal commands. Pupils were
equal and reactive to light and accommodation, sluggish, 2-
to 3-mm bilaterally, responded to pain and light touch.
Fentanyl and propofol were at 50 mcg an hour for sedation.
The patient's respiratory status was monitored. The patient
was noted to be obese and was noted to be a diabetic. While
in ICU, the patient was followed by the respiratory therapy
for control of vent settings.

As stated previously, plastic surgery was consulted for his
hand. A volar splint was applied on [**2179-10-25**] and the
arterial line was moved from right to his left upper
extremity secondary to injury. Surgery was planned for in the
future. On [**2179-10-25**] ortho spine was consulted; and MRI
was recommended to assess further damage to the T9-T10
injury. MRI was obtained and studies were as above. A TLSO
brace was recommended, and followup was recommend