Admission Date:  [**2164-7-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2164-8-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2142-2-11**]     Sex:  F

Service:  TRAUMA SURGERY

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 22-year-old female
who presented upon [**2164-7-17**] to the Trauma Center.  She
was involved in a head-on collision when she was driving a
motorcycle.  She had a helmet on.  She struck a car head-on
and collided with the windshield with significant damage to
the windshield and to her helmet, reportedly.  She had
positive loss of consciousness and loss of memory of the
event.  However, she remained hemodynamically stable
throughout transport and upon arrival via [**Location (un) 7622**].  She had
reported obvious left upper extremity and left lower
extremity deformities.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Ovarian cysts.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1.  Ear tubes done as a child.
2.  Exploratory laparotomy procedure.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:  She takes no prescription
medications.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION UPON ARRIVAL IN THE EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT
ON [**2164-7-17**]:  Initial vital signs:  Blood pressure
130/palpable, pulse 100, respiratory rate 16.  HEENT:  An
abrasion and ecchymosis around the left eye.  The patient's
midface was stable to palpation.  Her [**Location (un) 2611**] coma scale was
15.  Her trachea was midline.  Tympanic membranes were clear
bilaterally.  Neck:  C collar in place.  Chest:  The chest
examination showed some tenderness to the left superior
thorax without any crepitus or deformities noted.  Breath
sounds were equal bilaterally.  Cardiovascular:  Regular
rhythm.  Abdomen:  Soft, nondistended, nontender abdomen.
Extremities:  Left upper extremity showed a positive
degloving injury to the forearm with multiple lacerations to
the upper arm.  The radial and ulnar pulses were present on
the left upper extremity.  Motor function of the wrist was
intact on the left upper extremity.  Positive tenderness and
swelling in the upper proximal humerus with a question of a
deformity.  Right upper extremity examination showed a
deformity to the right forearm with ecchymosis.  Radial
pulses palpable at 2+.  Sensation was intact to light touch.
Motor was intact except possibly some abduction but pulses
were present with a good capillary refill on the right upper
extremity.  Left lower extremity examination showed moderate
leg swelling with a positive palpable dorsalis pedis pulse.
Sensation was intact to light touch throughout.  Capillary
refill was less than two seconds.  The patient was able to
move all of her toes.  There was significant anterior
swelling on the left lower extremity about the knee and
anterior to the left tibial tuberosity.  The patient's right
lower extremity examination showed no deformity with 2+
pulses; dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial.  Pelvis
examination showed a laceration over the left anterior
superior iliac spine but the pelvis remained stable to [**Doctor Last Name **]
and to palpation.  Two IVs were placed, 17 guage in the right
upper extremity.  Rectal examination was normal tone and
Guaiac negative.  Back examination showed no tenderness or
step-off signs.  No lesions.  Neurologic:  The patient was
alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves I through X
were intact grossly.  [**Doctor First Name 81**] through XII were not tested due to
the C collar in place.  Motor examination did show movement
of the patient's fingers and toes bilaterally, upper and
lower extremities.  Sensory examination:  Light touch
throughout.

LABORATORY/RADIOLOGIC DATA:  Hematocrit of 32.4, white count
26.2.  Amylase 35.  Serum tox screen was negative.
Coagulation studies:  INR 1.2, PTT 25.6, PT 13.7.  Urinalysis
showed large blood, otherwise negative.  However, the patient
was noted to be menstruating at this time.

The patient underwent a chest x-ray which showed a probable
left upper pulmonary contusion as well as a small left apical
pneumothorax.  The patient underwent other x-ray studies of
the left leg and left arm which showed a left medial femoral
condyle fracture as well as a left tibial comminuted fracture
of the middiaphysis.

Pelvic x-rays were negative for fractures.  Also of note was
a left transverse fibula fracture on the lower extremity.

Thoracic lumbar spine films were negative for any injuries or
malalignment.

The patient underwent x-ray films for the right radius which
showed a distal comminuted fracture of the right radius as
well a right ulnar styloid fracture.

The patient underwent a  CT of the chest which again
confirmed a left pulmonary contusion and a likely pulmonary
laceration on the left upper lobe area.

A CT of the abdomen was negative with a question of unlikely
free air.

A CT of the pelvis was negative for any injury.

A CT of the cervical spine was negative for any injury.

A CT of the head was negative for any injury.

The patient underwent an x-ray film of the left upper
extremity which did show a proximal fracture of the neck of
the humerus.

A left-sided clavicle fracture was noted on the initial
studies.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient remained hemodynamically stable
at this time.  She was taken to the Operating Room for
orthopedic surgery to initially wash out the left leg open
fracture.  A summary of the patient's fractures upon
presentation to the Operating Room included (1)  Left knee
medial femoral condyle fracture.  (2)  A left proximal
humerus fracture.  (3)  Right distal radius fracture.  (4)
Left tibia fibula comminuted fracture.

The patient was taken to the Operating Room, as previously
mentioned, with Orthopedic Surgery and the following
procedures were performed.  Irrigation of the open fracture
on the left lower extremity, reduction of that fracture, open
reduction and internal fixation of the medial femoral
condyle, open reduction and internal fixation of the left
humerus fracture as well as an intramedullary rod and repair
of the left tibia fracture.  As well was performed a closed
reduction of the right radius.  Plastic Surgery was consulted
intraoperatively for assistance.

Intraoperatively, because of the left pulmonary contusion
with a small pneumothorax noted on the left side, as per the
CAT scan, a left-sided chest tube was placed
intraoperatively.  The patient was then admitted to the
Trauma ICU for further observation after her multiple
orthopedic operations.  Orthopedic Hand physician also saw
the patient and planned to so an open reduction and internal
fixation of the right distal radius fracture in approximately
10-14 days.

The patient did remain intubated for a brief period of time
postoperatively.  The patient was extubated approximately a
day and a half after admission successfully.  The patient was
also started on Lovenox for DVT prophylaxis.  Physical
Therapy began working with the patient as soon as she was
awake and alert enough.  She did remain hemodynamically
stable during this time, although she was slightly
tachycardiac.

Upon further assessment, the patient was transferred to the
floor with continued physical therapy.  Her left upper
extremity remained in a sling.  On approximately [**2164-7-22**], the patient was noted to have a drop in her hematocrit
to as low as 18.1 and was typed and crossed for 4 units.  She
did receive 4 unit transfusion and the vital signs remained
stable during this time.  A CTA angiogram of the chest was
performed to assess for a possible intrathoracic bleeding.
The result was no active contrast extravasation, only a left
pleural effusion was noted and a possible pneumonia on the
left side as well.

The patient was placed on IV Levaquin at this time to treat
her empirically for a left-sided pneumonia.  Her temperature
did spike to 101 on [**2164-7-22**] and this was the reason
antibiotics were started.  The patient's follow-up serial
hematocrits were 26.3 and 29.6 after her transfusions and
then rose to 31.4 by [**2164-7-26**].  The patient was
complaining of a chronic rash on her scalp including some
flaking and desquamation and itchiness of the skin on her
scalp and ears which apparently was a chronic problem before
this injury.

Dermatology was consulted and provided some creams and
medicat