Admission Date:  [**2172-1-29**]       Discharge Date:  [**2172-1-30**]

Date of Birth:   [**2095-5-9**]       Sex:  M

Service: Neurosurgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 74-year-old
gentleman who fell out of a wheelchair at home and likely had
loss of consciousness.  He clearly hit his head on the floor
as evidenced by right eye ecchymosis and right superficial
laceration.  He does not have any memory of the fall and was
found by his landlord who called EMS.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypertension, CAD, CHF, CVA in the
past.  He is wheelchair bound.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  On admission, Zestril 7.5 mg po q day,
Trazodone 150 mg po q h.s., Serax 20 mg po bid, Buspar 10 mg
po tid, Aspirin 81 mg po q day, Propranolol 10 mg po q a.m.
and q noon, Zoloft 200 mg q h.s., Pericolace one po q day,
Senokot one po q h.s., Lipitor 10 mg po q day, Lasix 20 mg po
q day, Neurontin 200 mg po bid and MVI one po q day.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Patient's blood pressure was 180/107,
heart rate 18, sats 93% on room air.  He is alert, oriented
to person, follows simple commands, pupils equal, round and
reactive to light.  Extraocular movements full.  He has right
eye ecchymosis and right contusion and right laceration of
the eyebrow.  Tongue is midline, palate rises symmetrically,
right upper and lower extremity are paretic from old CVA.  He
moves the left side spontaneously.  Head CT shows a 1 by 4 cm
left occipital epidural hematoma with large hypodense area in
the left frontal temporal region which is consistent with his
old left MCA infarct.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission, white count 13.3, hematocrit
39.6, sodium 138, potassium 4.6, chloride 103, CO2 21, BUN
21, creatinine 1.4, glucose 134, calcium 8.9, phosphorus 2.5,
magnesium 1.8.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  He was admitted to the surgical Intensive
Care Unit for close observation.  His neurologic status, he
continued to be awake and alert with continued right
hemiparesis, not oriented reliably to place, although did at
one point say the hospital.  He is having difficulty
expressing himself.  His pupils are equal, round and reactive
to light.  He is moving his left side spontaneously.  Vital
signs have been stable.  His repeat head CT on [**2172-1-30**] shows
no increase in the epidural hematoma.  Neurologic status has
remained stable and unchanged since admission.  The patient
will be discharged back to rehab facility.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Zestril 7.5 mg po q day, Trazodone
150 mg po q h.s., Serax 20 mg po bid, Buspar 10 mg po tid,
Propranolol 10 mg po q a.m. and q noon, Zoloft 200 mg q h.s.,
PeriColace one po q day, Senokot one po q h.s., Lipitor 10 mg
po q day, Lasix 20 mg po q day, Neurontin 200 mg po bid and
MVI one po q day.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.  He will be discharged to
rehab to follow-up with his primary care doctor as needed and
with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 6910**] in [**4-14**] weeks time with repeat head CT.




                            [**Name6 (MD) 6911**] [**Name8 (MD) **], MD  [**MD Number(1) 6913**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 344**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2172-1-30**]  12:44
T:  [**2172-1-30**]  12:47
JOB#:  [**Job Number 36846**]
