Admission Date:  [**2154-9-7**]       Discharge Date:  [**2154-9-18**]

Date of Birth:   [**2095-12-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 58 year old
gentleman with a prior history of coronary artery disease
status post myocardial infarction times four, who was
initially seen in an outside Emergency Room the day prior to
admission with complaint of pre-syncope and was sent home.
He represented to [**Hospital3 **] Emergency Room with crushing
substernal chest pain.  At the outside hospital he had
evidence of an inferior myocardial infarction with ST
elevations in leads II, III and F.  He was treated with 100
mg bolus of TPA and initially had symptom improvement,
however, soon afterwards, his ST elevations returned and the
patient became hypotensive to pressure of 50 systolic.  At
[**Hospital3 6592**] he was placed on Dopamine gtt, intubated,
given an Integrilin 50.5 ml bolus 11 ml per hour afterwards
and transferred to [**Hospital1 69**] for a
catheterization.

Presenting to the catheterization laboratory, catheterization
revealed a very small right coronary artery with good
collaterals to left anterior descending, chronically occluded
left anterior descending and evidence of circumflex disease.
The patient underwent angioplasty of his left circumflex
artery which he tolerated well, although he did have ST
elevations during the procedure, they resolved after
angioplasty.

The patient did have profuse bleeding from his right groin
site and his oropharynx during the procedure.  The patient's
INR and PTT were checked and found to be 9.0 and 89
respectively, which was an elevation of an INR of 1.03 and
PTT of 26.8 at the outside hospital.  It should be noted that
the patient was not on Coumadin and no heparin was given.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction
times four by outside hospital report.
2.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on home O2 with a
baseline O2 requirement of 3 liters.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Alcohol abuse.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:
1.  Hydrochlorothiazide 50.
2.  Atenolol 50.
3.  Zestril 5 twice a day.
4.  Sublingual Nitroglycerin p.r.n.
5.  Atrovent inhaler.

ALLERGIES:   The patient had no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Significant for tobacco use although the
patient did quit four years ago.  No prior drug use.
Significant alcohol use/abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient's vital signs on
presentation to Cardiac Care Unit were:  Blood pressure
130/95; pulse 81; saturation 100%.  The patient was on a
respirator, SAMV mode, the total volume was 700, respiratory
rate 14, PEEP of 5 and FIO2 of 1.0.  Generally, he was
sedated and intubated and minimally responsive.  HEENT
revealed gross bleeding out of his oropharynx.  ETT tube was
in place.  Chest was difficult to evaluate due to noise from
his balloon pump.  Abdomen was soft, nondistended.
Extremities showed a large expanding right groin hematoma
with no palpable dorsalis pedis or posterior tibial pulse on
the right but palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial
pulses on the left lower extremity.  Cool extremities
bilaterally.

The patient's Swan numbers revealed a right atrial pressure
of 10 and a right ventricular pressure of 30/50, wedge 15,
pulmonary artery saturation of 74%.

LABORATORY:   The patient's white blood cell count was 16.4
with a hematocrit of 46.3, platelets of 359 with a
differential of 63 neutrophils and 6 bands.  Troponin was
less than 0.02.  CK was 94, LDH was 247.  Basic Metabolic
Profile 131/4.2; 97/18; 7/1.2; 158.  The patient's PTT was
89.7, and INR was 9.8, as mentioned previously.

In short, this is a 58 year old gentleman with a history of
coronary artery disease status post previous myocardial
infarction times three, presenting with acute inferior
myocardial infarction at outside hospital and then to [**Hospital1 1444**] Catheterization Laboratory
status post failed TPA therapy.  The patient is hypertensive
on pressors and required intubation and newly developed
coagulopathy.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1.  Cardiovascular:
Coronary artery disease; The patient is status post
angioplasty to distal circumflex lesion with no stent
placement.  The patient's ST elevations resolved after
angioplasty and the patient remained chest pain free
throughout the course of his stay.  The patient was started
on aspirin, Lipitor and Plavix once he was hemodynamically
stable and his coagulopathy had resolved.

Pump:  On presentation the patient was in cardiogenic shock
with balloon pump at 1:1 and intubated.  The patient's
Dopamine drip and intra-aortic balloon pump were weaned over
the next couple of days.  Both were removed on the [**2154-9-9**].  The patient maintained stable blood pressures
throughout the course of his admission following weaning from
pressors and the balloon pump and was normotensive on
discharge.  The patient was started on both beta blocker and
ACE inhibitor.

Rhythm.  The patient was monitored on Telemetry throughout
the course of his stay.  The patient had no acute rhythm
issues during the course of his hospital stay.

The patient's CK peaked at 1374, troponin greater than 50.

2.  The patient was bleeding profusely from his groin site
during catheterization, from an INR of 9.8 and PTT of 89.7.
The patient's platelets dropped to as low as 109.  The
patient was treated with one unit of packed red blood cells,
two units of fresh frozen plasma and one unit of cryo
precipitate.  Following treatment with fresh frozen plasma
and cryo precipitate, the patient's INR had decreased to 1.6.
The patient's hematocrit had dropped as low as 27.9 but after
receiving an additional one unit of packed red blood cells,
returned to the normal range and stayed within normal limits
during the course of his hospitalization.  The patient's
platelets also slowly returned to [**Location 213**].

3.  Infectious Disease:  While intubated, the patient spiked
fevers to as high as 101.4 F.  He was pan-cultured.  Sputum
culture grew out coagulase positive Staphylococcus aureus and
Gram positive cocci in pairs and clusters.  Additionally,
further sputum samples grew out Gram negative rods that were
subsequently identified as Klebsiella pneuma.  The patient
was treated for Methicillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus
originally with Vancomycin and then once the sensitivities
were known, switched over to Oxacillin.  The patient received
a ten day course of treatment for that.  The patient also
received a ten day course of Levofloxacin for his Klebsiella.

The patient was afebrile with decreasing white blood cell
count at the time of discharge.

4.  Pulmonary:  The patient was intubated on arrival.
Ventilator settings are as listed in the vitals section.  The
patient was gradually weaned from his ventilator over the
course of the next few days.  The patient was extubated on
the 23rd and remained successfully extubated throughout the
course of his hospital stay with adequate oxygen saturations.
The patient was eventually weaned down to two liters nasal
cannula.

5.  Mental status:  The patient was confused and agitated
while on the ventilator as sedation was weaned.  The patient
does have a history of heavy alcohol use, thus, it was
thought that some of his agitation may be likely due to
withdrawal.  The patient was placed on a CIWA scale and given
Ativan, thus patient was changed to standing dose of
benzodiazepines.  The patient had a little improvement in
mental status over the next couple of days.

A Psychiatric consultation was obtained.  Psychiatry felt
that the doses of the benzodiazepines were too high and the
patient was showing signs of benzodiazepine withdrawal.  All
benzodiazepines were stopped.  The patient's agitation was
treated with Haldol and his mental status generally trended
towards baseline throughout the course of the next several
days.  Prior to discharge, the patient was alert, oriented,
conversant, however, still slightly confused, with some
memory deficits.

5.  Fluids, Electrolytes and Nutrition:   The patient had a
significant history of alcohol abuse, thus, he was given
thiamine, folate and multivitamin throughout the course of
hi