Admission Date:  [**2134-5-9**]     Discharge Date:  [**2134-6-11**]

Date of Birth:   [**2080-7-4**]     Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an unfortunate 52
year old gentleman who was an unrestrained driver on a high
speed motor vehicle accident versus a utility pole.  There
was significant damage of the vehicle and the utility pole
was broken in half. The patient was found to have a possible
alcohol level upon arrival.  Question of loss of
consciousness prior to the encounter with the paramedics.  He
was found awake and alert, bleeding from facial lacerations
and the windshield was noticed to be spidered.  Significant
damage to the steering wheel.  He was nevertheless
hemodynamically stable at the scene and upon transfer to the
[**Hospital1 69**].  His main complaint was
facial pain and right chest pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
2.  Asthma.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Status post splenectomy as a child apparently related to
trauma.
5.  Status post colectomy in the distant past for colon
cancer.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Unclear but the patient referred
that he took medications for hypertension.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs upon arrival to the [**Hospital1 1444**], the patient had a
temperature of 98.6, heart rate 78, blood pressure
140/palpable, respiratory rate 20, oxygen saturation 95% in
room air.  The patient was awake, alert and followed
commands.  He had multiple facial lacerations.  He had a deep
laceration on the right side of the nose.  There was a
hematoma on the right upper eyelid and laceration of the
right eyebrow.  There was an abrasion of the scalp on top of
the head.  The pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light
and accommodation, 3.0 to 2.0 millimeters.  The neck had a
cervical collar in place.  Trachea was midline.  Chest -
There was a bruise over the xiphoid, good inspiratory and
expiratory effort, bilateral breath sounds, no crepitus to
palpation.  He was tender over the right lateral chest wall.
He was regular rate and rhythm.  The abdomen had a midline
scar well healed.  He was nontender to palpation.  Pelvis was
stable, nontender to palpation.  The back showed no bruises
and no step-off and no tenderness.  He had good rectal tone.
He was occult blood positive.  Extremities had some abrasions
on both knees.  No obvious bony deformity.  Motor strength
was [**4-25**].  He had bilateral palpable pulses.  He had a
laceration on the left forehead that appeared to be
superficial.

LABORATORY DATA:  Hematocrit on arrival was 27.7, white blood
cell count 14.0, platelets 250,000.  Prothrombin time 13.2,
partial thromboplastin time 28.0 and INR 1.2.  His gas
obtained in the Trauma Bay was a pH of 7.32, pCO2 of 48, pO2
of 136, bicarbonate 26 and base excess of -1.  ETOH level
435.  Amylase was 101.

His initial trauma evaluation showed a chest x-ray with
widened mediastinum that raised the question of aortic
injury.  Pelvis and cervical spine were negative.  CT of the
head showed no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage.  The
chest CT showed a transection of the proximal descending
thoracic aorta and very important juxta-aortic hematoma.  CT
of the abdomen was unremarkable.

An emergent consultation with the thoracic surgery service
was obtained and he was taken to the operating room for an
urgent left posterolateral thoracotomy with repair of the
proximal descending thoracic aorta using a 20 millimeter gel
weave tube graft using also left atrial femoral bypass.  The
patient tolerated the procedure well and he was transferred
in stable condition to the Trauma Intensive Care Unit.

Due to the mechanism of the accident and the nature of this
injury once in the SICU, he was found to have an important
pulmonary contusions requiring full ventilatory support.
Over the first 48 hours, he was maintained on pressors and
his ventilatory status was critical.

On postoperative day number one, he was noted to have an
important right pleural effusion and a large chest tube was
placed.  The patient developed acute respiratory distress
syndrome and continued to require full ventilatory support.
Within a week after his operation, he was noted to have
bilateral pneumonia and needed to be bronchoscoped several
times.  One of the bronchoalveolar lavages came positive for
Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus and he was
started on Vancomycin.

In order to provide nutrition for this patient, a NJ was
placed and he was started on tube feeds.  Around this time,
he was noticed to have significantly and consistently
elevated blood sugar.  He required to be placed on an
aggressive regular insulin sliding scale to control his blood
sugar.

Over the course of the next couple weeks, the patient had
several trials of weaning off the ventilator but all of them
failed.  Finally, it was decided to trach him and in a last
attempt and effort, the patient was extubated on [**2134-6-1**], by
the SICU staff.  He remained extubated keeping good oxygen
saturation and decent blood arterial gases through that day.

By [**2134-6-6**], he was in good condition in order to be
transferred to the floor on TC6 where he was immediately
evaluated by physical therapy and started exercising with the
nursing staff.  At this time, he was awake, alert and most of
the time oriented times two.  Reviewing his prior trauma
films, we were able to clinically clear his cervical spine.

Despite his significant clinical improvement, he presented
with impaired mobility, impaired endurance and significant
knowledge deficit associated probably with decondition
secondary to prolonged hospitalization and Intensive Care
Unit stay.  He continued to work daily with physical therapy
and on [**2134-6-10**], he completed successfully a second course of
fourteen days of intravenous Vancomycin.

We reviewed his case with infectious disease and the final
recommendation was to continue the Vancomycin for a total of
21 days.  The last week that the patient was on the floor he
repeatedly expressed strong desire of being discharged.  At
that time, that was not an option since the patient was
getting intravenous antibiotic and he had no insurance.  Case
manager and social worker worked very hard trying to find VNA
to provide outside hospital antibiotics but this was
impossible at that time.

Two options were presented to the patient.  One was to stay
for another seven days and complete his 21 days of
intravenous Vancomycin or be discharged on p.o. Nasalide that
the patient had to pay on his own.  He rejected both of the
possibilities and agreed to stay until [**2134-6-12**].  He was
supposed to get his usual dose of Vancomycin twice a day.

Unfortunately around 9:00 o'clock on Friday, [**2134-6-11**], while
we had a covering resident for the trauma team, the patient
signed out against medical advice.  He was explained in
detail all the implications about his decision and he was
given prescriptions for Percocet 5/325 one to two tablets
p.o. q4-6hours to control his pain, Flovent inhaler 110 mcg
two puffs b.i.d.  He was instructed in part to use insulin
and he was provided with a glucometer.  He was given a
prescription for insulin subcutaneous.   He was given a
prescription for Lopressor 75 mg p.o. b.i.d.  He was
encouraged to follow-up on Trauma Clinic next week so we
could assess his progress.

Social Work also scheduled a VNA to follow him up in regards
to his diabetic training.  He was instructed to make a
follow-up appointment with Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1537**] from the
Cardiothoracic Surgical Service in two to three weeks after
the time he was discharged and also to make a follow-up
appointment in the Trauma Clinic as stated above.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  At the time of discharge was good,
but once again please note that the patient left the hospital
against medical advice without completing his 21 day course
of intravenous Vancomycin for Methicillin resistant
Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia.




                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 3598**], M.D.   [**MD Number(1) 3599*