Admission Date:  [**2100-8-9**]       Discharge Date:  [**2100-8-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2025-8-12**]       Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a 75 year old
female with a past medical history of hypertropic obstructive
cardiomyopathy who presented today for percutaneous
intervention to ablate the ventricular septum.  The patient
was diagnosed with HOCM last year after echocardiogram showed
a dynamic left ventricular outflow tract gradient.  The
patient reports that she tires easily with exertion and often
feels her heart racing and that she has had these symptoms
for several years.  Her resting left ventricular outflow
tract gradient was 160 millimeters of Mercury and her septal
wall thickness was noted to be 1.9 centimeters; the
intra-luminal thickness was 1.7 centimeters. A trial of beta
blockade was initially successful in decreasing her symptoms,
however, the patient remained symptomatic with shortness of
breath upon minimal exertion.

The patient was taken to the Catheterization Laboratory on
the day of admission and an ethanol septal ablation was
performed.  The patient's severe left ventricular outflow
tract gradient of greater than 150 was observed with elevated
left ventricular and diastolic pressures.  The patient's
ejection fraction was 60%.

The patient's coronary arteries were completely clean with no
stenotic lesions noted.  The patient was also noted to have
persistent left sided supraventricular tachycardia.  Ethanol
ablation of S1 and S2 was performed and the gradient was
reduced to 20 millimeters of Mercury with persistent
post-systolic accentuation.  The patient was admitted to the
Coronary Critical Care Unit without chest pain, shortness of
breath or diaphoresis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Hypothyroidism.
3.  Osteoporosis.
4.  Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM).
5.  Chronic bronchitis.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:
1.  Toprol XL 100 mg twice a day.
2.  Fosamax 10 mg q. day.
3.  Aspirin.
4.  Flovent.
5.  Calcium.
6.  Atrovent.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   Upon admission, revealed an elderly
lady who is alert and oriented times three and in no acute
distress.  HEENT examination:  Pupils are equal, round and
reactive to light.  Mucous membranes were moist.  The
patient's oropharynx was clear.  The patient's extraocular
movements intact.  Neck examination:  There was no
thyromegaly.  There was no cervical lymphadenopathy.  There
was no jugular venous pressure while the patient was lying
flat.  Cardiovascular examination is a regular rate, normal
S1, normal S2, III/VI diamond shaped systolic murmur best
auscultated at the apex and radiating to the neck and
abdomen.  Respiratory examination was clear to auscultation
bilaterally, no wheezes.  Abdominal examination was soft,
nontender; active bowel sounds were present.  The patient's
systolic murmur could be auscultated radiating to the
abdomen.  Extremities: The patient had a hematoma on the
right catheterization site expanding roughly 4 by 6
centimeters and increasing in size by roughly [**4-5**] of an inch
in diameter over a two hour period after catheterization.
Additionally, a bruit was noted at the catheterization site
as well.  There was no active bleeding at the site.

LABORATORY:  The patient's white blood cell count was 12.2,
hemoglobin was 11.7, hematocrit was 32.1, platelet count was
211.  The patient's sodium is 137, potassium 3.6, chloride
102, bicarbonate 24, BUN 13, creatinine 0.6, glucose 171.
The patient's CK initially was 1,093 with an MB of 209 and an
index of 19.1.

The patient's calcium was 8.2, phosphate 3.6, magnesium 1.6.

The patient had a femoral artery and vein ultrasound done on
the day of admission due to the expanding hematoma over the
catheterization site that was read as showing a 1.3
centimeter fluid collection within the right groin which
demonstrated an arterial wave form.  It appears to be
connected with the right common femoral artery.  Normal
arterial wave forms were demonstrated within the right common
femoral artery and normal venous wave forms are demonstrated
with the right common femoral vein, which led to the
impression that a right groin pseudo-aneurysm was present,
the size of 1.3 centimeters.

Echocardiogram on the day after admission, [**2100-8-10**],
showed focal akinesis of a segment of the basal septum
consistent with controlled infarction, persistent
Doppler-able [**Male First Name (un) **] with severe resting left ventricular outflow
gradient, at least moderate mitral regurgitation, a 70%
ejection fraction was noted along with two plus mitral
regurgitation.  It was also noted that based on the [**2095**] age
and endocarditis prophylaxis recommendations, the
echocardiogram findings indicate a moderate risk which
indicates that antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended in the
future for any invasive procedures done on this patient.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Cardiovascular System:  a) Coronary artery disease:  The
patient has clean coronary arteries.  Her lipid profile
revealed an LDL of less than 100 and HDL within normal
limits.  Therefore, the patient was not started on a lipid
lowering [**Doctor Last Name 360**].  The patient, however, was continued on her
aspirin regimen.  b) Pump:  The patient was restarted on her
outpatient beta blockade of Toprol XL 100 mg twice a day; the
patient's heart rate and blood pressure were closely
monitored and these parameters stayed at acceptable ranges.
The patient was not started on an ACE inhibitor in light of
her well controlled blood pressure, heart rate and coronary
artery disease.  c) Rhythm:  The patient had a significant
amount of ectopy both in the laboratory and in her first few
days on the floor.  The patient's electrolytes were managed
appropriately and Verapamil was considered as an additional
[**Doctor Last Name 360**] to go with both her outflow tract gradient and ectopy,
however, this was not started during this hospitalization due
to a well controlled blood pressure.  The patient was on a
trans-venous pacer for 48 hours in the unlikely event that
the patient could develop complete heart block after a septal
ablation.  The pacemaker never captured and was discontinued
after 48 hours with no evidence of heart block.

2.  Pulmonary:  The patient had no issues.  She was able to
oxygenate well on room air.  The pulmonary examination
remained unremarkable throughout her hospitalization despite
her diagnosis of acute bronchitis.  The patient's Flovent was
held due to its potential coronary trophic effects, however,
the patient was advised that she could continue on this
medication when she returned home.

3.  Renal:  The patient's BUN and creatinine remained within
normal limits despite the large dye load that she received in
the Catheterization Laboratory.

4.  Fluids, Electrolytes and Nutrition, Gastrointestinal:
The patient was started on a regular house diet.  She did
complain of nausea on the day after her catheterization,
which was thought to be her anginal equivalent and was
treated with Phenergan.  The patient also experienced a
crampy abdominal pain intermittently throughout her
hospitalization which she said was relieved by the passage of
flatus.  She was given Simethicone p.r.n. for flatus and this
seemed to help with her symptoms.

5.  Hematologic;  Serial hematocrits were monitored
throughout the patient's hospitalization due to her expanding
hematoma and dropping hematocrit.  The patient's hemoglobin
was 11.7 right after her first procedure and had been 12.6
prior to the procedure.  On hospital day two, [**8-10**], it
dropped to 10.7 and then dropped as low as 8.4 on [**8-12**].
The patient was transfused one unit of packed red blood cells
on the 11th to prepare her for surgery, which was required to
repair an Arteriovenous fistula that was detected in her
right groin on hospital day three, when a repeat femoral
artery and vein ultrasound diagnosed this defect.  It was
also thought that the previously diagnosed pseudo-aneurysm,
which was not noted to be present on the second repeat
ultrasound may have been mis-recognized as a pseudo-aneurysm,
when in fact it was an arteriovenous fistula.  The patient's
h