Admission Date:  [**2154-4-7**]     Discharge Date:  [**2154-4-12**]

Date of Birth:   [**2102-5-1**]     Sex:  F

Service:

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Dyspnea and intubation.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The history was obtained from
sister and Emergency Medical Service notes.

This is a 51-year-old female with a history of obstructive
sleep apnea, hypothyroidism, and morbid obesity who was in
her usual state of health until about 10 p.m. on [**4-6**]
when she developed acute dyspnea, and Emergency Medical
Service was called.

She denied chest pain, nausea, vomiting, fevers, or chills.
She admitted to jaw pain times two days prior to the episode.
The jaw pain was not relieved by Tylenol with codeine and was
not associated with shortness of breath or chest pain.
Emergency medical technician arrived at 10:15 and found her
acutely dyspneic.  She was able to walk to the stretcher and
had vital signs which revealed blood pressure was 240/120,
heart rate was 100, and breathing at a rate of 24, and oxygen
saturation was 99% on room air.  She was alert and oriented
times three at 10:15 p.m. but became nonverbal by 10:40 p.m.
She was given aspirin 81 mg p.o. times four and sublingual
nitroglycerin and was brought to the [**Hospital1 190**] Emergency Department.

In the Emergency Department, she was hypertensive at 250/126,
obtunded, and with agonal breathing.  She was intubated.  She
diuresed 1200 cc of urine to 40 mg intravenously of Lasix.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Obstructive sleep apnea; treated with continuous positive
airway pressure at home for the last year.
2.  Dizzy spells.
3.  Hypothyroidism.
4.  Morbid obesity.
5.  She has not had any previous intubations.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  (Medications at home included)
1.  Levothyroxine 50 mcg p.o. once per day.
2.  Vioxx 50 mg p.o. once per day.
3.  Provera 10 mg p.o. once per day.
4.  Two unknown pills.

ALLERGIES:  She has no known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Her father died of a myocardial infarction
at the age of 42.  Her mother had [**Name2 (NI) 499**] cancer, breast
cancer, and a history of deep venous thrombosis.  No diabetes
in the family.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She denies any alcohol, tobacco, or drug
use.  She lives in [**Location 745**].  She is a teacher.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  On physical
examination, she was a morbidly obesity woman, intubated and
sedated.  Temperature was 97, blood pressure was 250/126
(which came down to 97/58 on a nitroglycerin drip), heart
rate was 110, respiratory rate was 32, and oxygen saturation
was 82% prior to intubation and 100% status post intubation.
The oropharynx had a small amount of blood.  An endotracheal
tube was in place.  She had an obese neck which made it
difficult to evaluate her jugular venous pressure.  She had
no carotid bruits.  There was bilateral coarse rales
anteriorly on lung examination.  No wheezing.  She was
tachycardic with distant heart sounds.  The abdomen was soft,
moderately distended, normal active bowel sounds, and obese.
Extremity examination revealed she had 1+ edema bilaterally
in her lower extremities.  Her extremities were warm.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratory data
revealed white blood cell count was 11.9, hematocrit was
42.4, and platelets were 374, and mean cell volume was 82.
Chemistry-7 revealed sodium was 138, potassium was 4.1,
chloride was 101, bicarbonate was 25, blood urea nitrogen was
19, creatinine was 0.8, and blood glucose was 135.  INR was
1.2 and partial thromboplastin time was 26.2.  Creatine
kinase was 50 and troponin was less than 0.3 for the first
set. However, her creatine kinase subsequently peaked at 235,
and her troponin peaked at 5.4.  Urinalysis showed 500
protein, small blood, trace glucose, no signs of infection.
Arterial blood gas was 7.11/58/308 with a lactate of 4.4;
which in a subsequent arterial blood gas was 7.27/32/259.
Calcium was 8.6, phosphate was 3.5, and magnesium was 1.6.
Albumin was 3.7.  Total cholesterol was 200.  Hemoglobin A1c
was 5.8.  Triglycerides were 321, high-density lipoprotein
was 73, and low-density lipoprotein was 63.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone was 2.6.  Free T4 was 1.4.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray showed
endotracheal tube was in place, cardiomegaly, and bilateral
congestion.  No effusions or infiltrate.

Electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm at 90 beats
per minute with normal axis.  T wave inversions in leads I
and aVL.  ST elevations in V2.  ST depressions in V5 and V6.
Lateral posterior leads were normal.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was aggressively diuresed for
her congestive heart failure.  She was kept on a
nitroglycerin intravenous drip for her congestive heart
failure and her hypertension to decrease her preload.

The patient was diuresed several liters with improved
respiratory status.  She was extubated successfully without
any complications.

The patient continued to require oxygen immediately after
extubation with subsequent diuresis.  Her oxygen was weaned
off.  She was able to saturate 98% on room air.  She was kept
on continuous positive airway pressure at night while she was
sleeping.

To work up the cause of her congestive heart failure, she
underwent a cardiac echocardiogram which showed a normal left
atrium, a moderately dilated right atrium, mild symmetric
left ventricular hypertrophy, with an ejection fraction of
60% to 65%.  The right ventricle was normal.  There was a
markedly dilated ascending aorta.  No aortic regurgitation.
Trivial mitral regurgitation was seen, and there was no
pericardial effusion on this echocardiogram.

The patient also underwent a renal ultrasound to rule out
renal artery stenosis.  This was a limited study due to the
patient's habitus and lack of cooperation.  There was no
evidence of renal pathology on the renal ultrasound.  There
was a simple cyst on the upper lobe measuring 2.1 cm to 2.3
cm.  There was a normal-looking arterial wave form.  No
hydronephrosis or nephrolithiasis.

The patient also underwent a cardiac catheterization which
showed no angiographically significant flow-limiting disease.
The left main coronary artery was normal.  The left anterior
descending artery had an eccentric proximal 20% to 30%
stenosis.  The left circumflex had mild luminal
irregularities throughout, but no flow-limiting lesions.  The
dominant right coronary artery had significant proximal spasm
upon catheter engagement which was relieved by intracoronary
nitroglycerin to reveal an underlying proximal 20% stenosis,
but no angiographically significant lesions in the rest of
the vessel.  Resting hemodynamics revealed an elevated
right-sided and left-sided filling pressures with  a mean
arterial pressure of 14, and left ventricular end-diastolic
pressure of 21.  There was mild pulmonary hypertension with a
mean pulmonary artery pressure or 25.  There was no
significant gradient across the aortic valve.  Left
ventriculography revealed no mitral regurgitation.  There was
no regional wall motion abnormalities.  The calculated
ejection fraction was high normal at 67%.  She was diagnosed
with mild coronary artery disease and moderate diastolic
ventricular dysfunction.

It was felt that the etiology of the heart failure and acute
pulmonary edema was likely multifactorial; associated with
obesity, with sleep apnea, hypertension, and possible sodium
retention.

The patient did well after diuresis.  The patient was
evaluated by Physical Therapy who recommended a home safety
evaluation and home physical therapy.  Her renal function and
pulmonary function remained stable.  She was started on
Toprol-XL 25 mg p.o. once per day and lisinopril 10 mg p.o.
once per day.   As well, she was sent out on Lasix 40 mg p.o.
twice per day.  She remained stable.

She was also evaluated by the Pulmonary Service to evaluate
for pulmonary disease.  Their impression was that given she
had gained substantial weight since her last sleep study, she
should have a repeat sleep study as an outpatient and follow
up with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 12998**] as an outpatient.  Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 12998**] also
recommended an aggressive weight loss program which would
improve her cardiac and