Admission Date:  [**2150-3-31**]       Discharge Date:  [**2150-5-14**]

Date of Birth:   [**2089-12-25**]       Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA SURGERY

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a complicated story of a
54 year-old homeless male who was hit by a car while [**Street Address(1) 110544**].  He had a positive loss of consciousness,
hit the windshield with his head.  The patient was brought to
the Emergency Department where it was found that he had a
fractured left ulna as well as a fractured left tibia and
fibula.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Alcohol abuse and asthma.  The patient
also has a past medical history of seizures.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He is a smoker.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  The initial physical
examination on presentation revealed vital signs temperature
100.2.  Pulse 112.  Blood pressure 117/55.  He was saturating
100% on face mask.  HEENT showed positive forehead and
frontal scalp lacerations.  His neck was in a cervical
collar.  His cardiovascular was regular rate and rhythm.
Abdomen was benign.  Rectal showed normal tone.  The right
upper extremity showed no deformity.  The pelvis was stable
to AP and lateral compression.  The left upper extremity
showed crepitus and pain in the right shoulder and right
wrist along with a flexion deformity of the left small
finger.  The right lower extremity was without deformity.
The left lower extremity had pain throughout the hip and knee
region with crepitation and deformity of the proximal fibula
and tibia.

LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  White blood cell count 7.2,
hematocrit 30.2, platelet count of 300.  PT 12.4, PTT 31.1,
amylase 42, ETOH 284.  He had some films done in the
Emergency Department.  The C spine was read as negative.  The
pelvis showed a comminuted left acetabular fracture.  The hip
was reduced.  CT of the head was negative.  The left tibia,
fibula comminuted proximal tibia fibula fracture distal to
the tibial tubercle.  He also had a distal ulnar fracture
comminuted.  The left elbow and left ankle were negative.
The left shoulder showed a stigmata of a proximal humerus old
fracture, not acute.  No dislocation.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was long and
complicated.  He was initially admitted to the Surgical
Intensive Care Unit, because of a decreasing hematocrit as
well as delirium tremens.  He was in the Trauma CICU for
several days and was stabilized in the CICU with transfusions
and intravenous therapy as well as pain control.  The patient
was transferred.  From the CICU the patient underwent surgery
for acetabular fixation as well as ulnar fixation.  He was
status post open reduction and internal fixation as well as
for the tibia fibula fracture, which were reduced.  He
subsequently went into delirium tremens and while in delirium
tremens developed multiple small pulmonary embolisms.  He was
then placed on anticoagulation for these multiple small
pulmonary embolisms.  The patient then developed a
retroperitoneal bleed.  The patient was readmitted to the
CICU for rule out abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture.  The
patient was taken to the Operating Room for exploratory
laparotomy, which revealed no rupture in the abdominal aortic
aneurysm.  He had an IVC filter placed.  The patient then
returned to the CICU where he was extubated and stabilized.
He was sent to the floor where on the floor the patient
aspirated and was then brought back to the CICU and intubated
again.

The patient remained in the CICU for several more days and
was given antibiotics for his suspected aspiration pneumonia.
While in the CICU the patient was again stabilized.  He self
extubated on [**4-24**].  The patient was stable after self
extubation and was transferred back to the floor.  While on
the floor the patient developed respiratory distress.  He was
returned to the CICU.  The patient did not require intubation
on this final trip to the CICU.  He was treated with Lasix
and careful monitoring.  The patient did well in the unit and
stabilized.  He was transferred to the floor on [**5-11**].  Since
being on the floor the patient has been stable.  His vital
signs have remained stable.  His respiratory status is
improved.  The patient had two drains placed, one to drain a
left flank hematoma as well as a drain on the right to drain
a fluid collection.  The fluid collection grew out
enterococcus.  This fluid collection remains the prime
suspect for the patient's recurrent fever.  The patient is
currently on Vancomycin and Cipro and is doing well on the
floor.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  He is hospital day number forty three,
vancomycin day sixteen of twenty one, Cipro day five of ten.

DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.6 with a
blood pressure of 122/90.  Heart rate of 100, sating 95% on
room air.  He was alert and awake.  His chest was clear to
auscultation.  His cardiovascular system was regular rate and
rhythm.  His abdominal wound was healing by secondary
intention with no pain and no distention.  His extremities
his left ulnar and tibial fractures were stable.

LABORATORIES ON DISCHARGE:  White blood cell count 5.3,
hematocrit 26, platelets 394.

The patient was awaiting transfer to a rehab facility.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Enoxaparin 30 mg subQ q 12 hours,
vancomycin 1 gram intravenous q 12 day fourteen of twenty
one.  He was Clonidine PTS two patches one patch pd q Monday.
Flovent 110 micrograms two puffs b.i.d., furosemide 40 mg po
b.i.d., Protonix 40 mg po q 24 hours, Metoprolol 50 mg po
b.i.d., Ciprofloxacin 500 mg po q 12 day four of seven.  He
was on Oxycodone with acetaminophen 5 to 10 milliliters po q
4 to 6 prn for pain.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Pedestrian struck by a motor vehicle with a left tibia fibula
fracture, left ulnar fracture.  Subsequently the patient had
multiple small pulmonary embolisms while in house.  The
patient also developed a retroperitoneal bleed.  He was
explored emergently and found to have an intact abdominal
aortic aneurysm.

The patient was stable for discharge.  The patient should
follow up in the [**Hospital **] Clinic following rehab.  He
should also follow up with the Trauma Surgery Clinic.






                            [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 520**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 521**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 42753**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2150-5-14**]  09:46
T:  [**2150-5-14**]  10:13
JOB#:  [**Job Number 110545**]
