Admission Date:  [**2163-7-18**]     Discharge Date:  [**2163-7-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2090-11-8**]     Sex:  F

Service:  MICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72-year-old
female with a history of congestive heart failure,
hypertension, restrictive lung disease, kyphoscoliosis, and
major depression who was admitted to the Inpatient Psychiatry
Service on [**2163-6-25**] for depression and ruminations about
her physical condition; mostly because of her recently
discovered lung nodule that was believed to be benign.

The patient recently had her antidepressant (desipramine)
discontinued and was being considered for electroconvulsive
therapy, but ultimately was started on a course of Celexa and
Risperdal with methylphenidate be added on [**7-18**].

On the morning of admission to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit ([**7-18**]), the patient became acutely short of breath
with her oxygen saturation decreasing down to 55%.  An
arterial blood gas was done that showed a pH of 7.17, a PCO2
of 106, and a PO2 of 108 while on nasal cannula oxygen.

Therefore, the patient was semi-electively intubated and
brought to the Intensive Care Unit for a suspected
hypercarbic respiratory failure.

She has been taking all of her regular medications.  She
reports no fevers, chills, or chest pain.  An
electrocardiogram at the time of this incident showed ST
depressions in the inferolateral leads along with
tachycardia.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Congestive heart failure (with a recent echocardiogram in
[**2163-1-29**] which showed a left ventricular ejection
fraction of greater than 60%, 3+ mitral regurgitation, and
pulmonary hypertension).
2.  Asthma; pulmonary function tests in [**2163-5-31**] revealed
an FEV1 of 35%, FVC of 34%, and a FEV1:FVC ratio of 101%;
consistent with a restrictive lung pattern.
3.  Kyphoscoliosis and restrictive lung disease.
4.  Chronic CO2 retention.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Right middle lobe lung nodule 5 mm in diameter that has
had no change on serial chest computed tomography scan.  A
brain computed tomography was also negative for metastasis.
The patient has a recently discovered left lung nodule.
7.  Depression.

ALLERGIES:  AMOXICILLIN and ERYTHROMYCIN (uncertain
reaction).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
 1.  Digoxin 0.25 mg by mouth once per day
 2.  Metoprolol 50 mg by mouth twice per day.
 3.  Lasix 40 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Thiamine 100 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Folate 1 mg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Zestril 20 mg by mouth once per day.
 7.  Albuterol inhaler 1 to 2 puffs inhaled q.4-6h. as
needed.
 8.  Fluticasone 2 puffs inhaled twice per day.
 9.  Lipitor 10 mg by mouth once per day.
10.  Aspirin 81 mg by mouth once per day.
11.  Fosamax 70 mg by mouth every week.
12.  Methylphenidate 5 mg by mouth once per day (started on
[**7-18**]).
13.  Risperdal 1 mg by mouth q.h.s.
14.  Citalopram 40 mg by mouth once per day.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has been widowed for 11 years.
She is the mother of two (with a daughter and a son) and has
three grandchildren.  She worked at [**Location 24537**] a
woman's program for 29 years until about 10 years ago.  She
currently lives in [**Location 745**] with her boyfriend of seven and a
half years.  She reports that her husband, who died 11 years
ago, was an alcoholic.  She denies any history of alcohol or
drug abuse.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Physical examination
on admission revealed vital signs with a temperature of 99.1
degrees Fahrenheit, her heart rate was 72, her blood pressure
was 134/60, her respiratory rate was 14, and her pulse
oximetry was 98% (assist control tidal volume 400,
respiratory rate 13, positive end-expiratory pressure of 5,
30% FIO2).  In general, an elderly female who was sedated and
intubated.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat examination
pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.  Extraocular
muscles were intact.  The mucous membranes were moist.  Neck
examination revealed no jugular venous distention.  No bruits
of carotids.  The neck was supple.  Lung examination revealed
diffuse rales, soft wheezes, and good air movement
throughout.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a 4/6
systolic murmur at the apex radiating to the precordium.  A
regular rate and rhythm with frequent premature ventricular
contractions noted on the monitor.  The abdomen was soft,
nontender, and nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.
Extremity examination revealed 2+ edema at the ankles
bilaterally.  The feet were cool bilaterally.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:   Laboratory
data on admission revealed electrolytes with a sodium of 141,
potassium was 4.1, chloride was 97, bicarbonate was 39, and
her blood glucose was 297.  Free calcium was 1.31.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone was 2.  Rapid plasma reagin was
negative.  Blood urea nitrogen was 22.  Creatinine was 0.5.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  Electrocardiogram revealed a
normal sinus rhythm at 90 beats per minute, normal axis, and
normal intervals.  Question of a left atrial abnormality.
Downsloping ST depressions of 1 mm to 2 mm in size in leads
I, II, aVF, and V3 through V6.

A chest x-ray revealed severe kyphoscoliosis.  No acute
infiltrate.  No evidence of congestive heart failure.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:

1.  RESPIRATORY ISSUES:  The patient presented to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit after an episode of hypercarbic
respiratory failure.

A chest x-ray showed minimal evidence of congestive heart
failure.  Therefore, a pulmonary embolism was suspected.
However, a chest computerized axial tomography with
angiography ruled out this diagnosis.

The patient's presentation was also suspicious a myocardial
infarction.  Cardiac enzymes were checked every eight hours
times three following the respiratory decompensation.
Creatine phosphokinase levels were found not to be elevated.
At troponin level did reach 0.1 on the second set.

A Cardiology consultation was obtained, and an echocardiogram
was done.  The patient was found to have no focal wall motion
abnormalities, left ventricular ejection fraction was 55%,
and severe 4+ mitral regurgitation.  Per the Cardiology
consultation, there was no evidence to support a myocardial
infarction and that the majority of the electrocardiogram
changes were felt to be consistent with prior examinations.

The patient's blood pressure was controlled initially with a
nitroglycerin drip during extubation on [**7-20**].
Overnight, the patient was weaned off the nitroglycerin drip
and started on a course of isosorbide dinitrate and
hydralazine as needed for blood pressure control.  Cardiology
advised bringing her systolic blood pressures close to 100.
As the patient is a chronic CO2 retainer, her oxygen
saturations were kept in the low 90s for the remainder of her
hospital stay.

Of note, on her computerized axial tomography two stable
pulmonary nodules with some surrounding lymphadenopathy were
noted.

2.  INTRAVENOUS ACCESS ISSUES:  An arterial line and left
subclavian central line were placed on [**7-18**] and were
discontinued on [**7-21**] in preparation for the patient's
discharge back to [**Hospital1 **] Four.  These lines were placed
without complications.

3.  DEPRESSION ISSUES:  The patient was very anxious
throughout her hospital stay.  All psychiatric medications;
including citalopram, Ativan, and Risperdal were continued as
previously prescribed to control her anxiety and fluctuating
mood.

4.  CARDIOVASCULAR ISSUES:  To address the patient's history
of congestive heart failure, she was continued on Lipitor, a
beta blocker, aspirin, Lasix, and digoxin as previously
prescribed.  It was thought that her respiratory failure may
have been caused by a flash pulmonary edema related to her
congestive heart failure and mitral regurgitation.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was stable.
The patient had no oxygen requirement at the time of
discharge.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Ativan 0.25 mg by mouth three times per day.
 2.  Risperidone 1 mg by mouth q.h.s. and 0.25 mg by mouth
twice per day as needed.
 3.  Celexa 40 mg by mouth once per day.
 4.  Aspirin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
 5.  Lipitor 1