Admission Date:  [**2140-6-8**]       Discharge Date: [**2140-6-13**]

Date of Birth:   [**2102-8-24**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Company 191**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 39-year-old C6-C7
quadriplegic with decubitus ulcers that are chronic, multiple
urinary tract infections, who presented with fevers for three
days to 102 degrees Fahrenheit, decreased p.o. intake and
nausea and vomiting.  He felt lightheaded and had dark urine.
He wears a condom catheter.  He reported a dry cough that was
chronic and denied diarrhea, chest pain, shortness of breath,
or palpitations.  He had a visiting nurse for the decubitus
ulcers until he was kicked out of his sister's house Sunday.
He was febrile to 103.5 in the Emergency Department and
became hypotensive to 70/35.  He was given intravenous fluids
and transferred to the [**Hospital Unit Name 153**].  In the [**Hospital Unit Name 153**] the patient
received levofloxacin and clindamycin to cover empirically.
The patient's urine did not show an acute infection and his
chest x-ray was clear.  Without a clear source, the
antibiotics were discontinued.  The patient's hypotension
resolved with intravenous fluids and he was advanced on a
p.o. diet.  His nausea and vomiting also resolved, and he was
transferred to the floor.  Upon transfer to the floor the
patient had no complaints, denied pain, nausea, vomiting or
chills.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Quadriplegia status post motor
vehicle accident, C6-C7.  2. History of urinary tract
infections.  3. Sacral decubitus ulcer since [**2135**] status post
multiple debridements.  4. History of positive PPD treated
with INH.  5. Neurogenic bladder and bowel.  6. History of
duodenal ulcer.  7. History of substance abuse.  8. History
of asthma.  9. History of impulse control disorder.

MEDICATIONS:  1. Baclofen 10 mg p.o. q.i.d.  2. Valium 5 mg
q. 6 hours p.r.n.  3. Dilaudid 1 mg p.o. q. 4-6 hours.  4.
Combivent metered dose inhaler 2 puffs q. 4-6 hours p.r.n.
5. Tylenol 325 to 650 mg p.o. q. 4-6 hours p.r.n.

ALLERGIES:  Penicillin causes angioedema.  Vancomycin causes
a rash.  Gentamicin causes hives.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is homeless or semihomeless,
sometimes lives with his sister.  [**Name (NI) **] drinks a six-pack of
beer every day.  He smokes half a pack of cigarettes per day
for the last 25 years.  He has a history of smoking cocaine
and actively smokes marijuana.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs were temperature 101.7,
heart rate 90, respiratory rate 18, blood pressure 155/84 and
oxygen saturation of 96% on room air.  In general he was
sitting in a wheelchair in no apparent distress.  His HEENT
examination was normocephalic, atraumatic, extraocular
movements were intact, pupils were equal, round, and reactive
to light, moist mucous membranes and his oropharynx was
clear.  He had very poor dentition but no obvious sources of
infection or pus.  Neck was supple, no lymphadenopathy, neck
veins were flat.  Chest was clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  His cardiovascular examination showed a regular
rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2 without murmurs, rubs or
gallops.  Abdomen was distended, tympanic.  He had positive
bowel sounds, was nontender with no masses and no
hepatosplenomegaly.  His extremities showed no muscle tone,
decreased bulk, scars bilaterally on his lower extremities,
no edema.  Neurological examination showed paralysis of
bilateral lower extremities, semiparalysis of his upper
extremities.  He was able to move them but did not have fine
motor control of his fingers.  He had decreased muscle tone
and bulk.  On skin examination, he had bilateral scars on his
lower extremities which were hypopigmented.  He had a gluteal
decubitus ulcer 3 cm x 3 cm x 3 cm deep with pink granulation
tissue present on the outside and no pus.

LABORATORY DATA:  The patient's white count was 15.3,
hematocrit 32.5 and platelet count 314.  His ESR was 80.  The
patient has had multiple cultures drawn and at this point
have all had no growth to date.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  This is a 37-year-old man with C6-7
quadriplegia and chronic right decubitus ulcers here for
fever and hypotension.

1. Fever:  Chest x-ray was negative.  Source unknown at this
time, cultures pending, suspect osteomyelitis versus a wound
source from the sacral decubitus ulcers versus a GI source.
Plane films were obtained of the lumbosacral spine and pelvis
which did not show any obvious sources of osteomyelitis.  The
patient also received an MRI which was concerning for soft
tissue and bony infection, but did not show any
osteomyelitis, just a question of early osteomyelitis.  The
patient also received a triple-phase bone scan, the results
of which are pending.  In the hospital the patient was
started on levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. to cover for an
osteomyelitis or pneumonia.  At the time of dictation the
triple-phase bone scan results are pending.  If the bone scan
corroborates a source of osteomyelitis, the plan is to
discontinue antibiotics and perform a CT-guided biopsy of the
affected area in order to guide antibiotic therapy.  If the
triple-phase bone scan is negative, the patient will continue
on levofloxacin for a two-week course.  The patient had a
consultation by infectious disease during his hospital stay,
who recommended the bone scan.

2. Decubitus ulcers:  The patient was seen by plastic surgery
who examined and debrided his ulcer.  The patient used an air
mattress while in the hospital and was under the care of the
wound care team.  Plastic surgery recommended wet-to-dry
dressings three times a day.

3. Alcohol use:  The patient was placed on a CIWA scale while
in the hospital.

DISPOSITION:  To either the [**Doctor Last Name **] House or a skilled
nursing facility after the source of his fever is identified.

FOLLOW-UP PLANS:  The patient will follow up with his primary
care physician, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 1266**], after discharge.





                            [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4263**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2706**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2140-6-13**]  09:25
T:  [**2140-6-13**]  09:42
JOB#:  [**Job Number 107408**]
