Admission Date:  [**2145-12-17**]     Discharge Date:  [**2145-12-23**]

Date of Birth:   [**2069-8-22**]     Sex:  M

Service:  Medicine, [**Hospital1 **] Firm

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 77-year-old
gentleman transferred from [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Location (un) 620**] with hypoxia
secondary to a right lower lobe pneumonia due to the
inability of Intensive Care Unit beds at the [**Hospital 620**] campus.

The patient states that on Monday he began to notice
increasing dyspnea on exertion which progressed to the point
that by Thursday he was unable to do activities of daily
living.  Thus he presented to [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (Titles) 620**], at which
time chest x-ray revealed a right lower lobe pneumonia.  The
patient was started on azithromycin and ceftriaxone.  He was
felt to be too hypoxic for the floor with an oxygen
saturation of 92% to 94% on nonrebreather.

Upon arrival to [**Hospital1 69**]
Emergency Department a Medical Intensive Care Unit evaluation
was called.  Initial arterial blood gas was 7.39/29/66 with a
lactate of 5.8.  The patient was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit for sepsis protocol considering his
tachypnea, hypoxia, and elevated lactate.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   On review of systems, the patient denied
fevers.  He did report a nonproductive cough.  He denied any
chest pain, diarrhea, malaise, or myalgias.  However, he did
report decreased oral intake for approximately one day prior
to admission due to feeling so poorly.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
 1.  Hypertension.
 2.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
 3.  Gout.
 4.  Emphysema.
 5.  History of spontaneous pneumothorax.
 6.  Hypercholesterolemia.
 7.  Pneumonia on [**2144-9-8**].
 8.  History of transient ischemic attack in the late [**2121**]
characterized by left-sided paralysis which resolved.
 9.  Status post wedge resection for a questionable fungal
infection in the lung in the [**2091**].
10.  A recent gout flare at the end of [**2145-10-9**].

Of note, no echocardiogram on record at either [**Location (un) 620**] or
[**Hospital1 69**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Family history was noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has a 50-pack-year tobacco
history.  He quit 8.5 years ago.  No alcohol for the past 17
years; however, heavy use in the past.  No drugs.  The
patient worked as a banker.  He worked in the Navy during
World War II, but minimal exposure to shipyards.  He lives
with his wife and two children.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Admission physical
examination revealed the patient's temperature was 97.2
degrees Fahrenheit, his blood pressure was 132/55, his
respiratory rate 22, his heart rate was 97, and his oxygen
saturation was 92% on a nonrebreather.  In general, the
patient is an elderly male who was speaking in full
sentences.  He was in mild respiratory distress on a
nonrebreather.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat
examination revealed the pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation.  The extraocular
movements were intact.  The mucous membranes were dry.  The
oropharynx was clear.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a
regular rate and rhythm.  No murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  The
abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  There were
bowel sounds present.  Lungs revealed crackles and bronchial
breath sounds noted on the right.  Extremity examination
revealed no edema.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed the patient's white blood cell count was 23.4.  His
creatinine was 1.6 (noted to be 3.2 at an outside hospital).
His INR was 1.7.  His lactate was 1.6 (down from 5.8 at an
outside hospital).  Blood cultures from [**12-17**] and [**12-19**] were no growth to date at the time of this dictation.
Urine cultures from [**12-17**] and [**12-19**] showed no
growth.  Albumin from an outside hospital was 2.7.

PERTINENT RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed a right
lower lobe pneumonia, emphysema, and pleural plaques.

An electrocardiogram from an outside hospital revealed
tachycardia but a sinus rhythm.  Normal axis and normal
intervals.  Poor tracing, but no gross ST-T wave changes.

CONCISE SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUE/SYSTEM:  The
patient is a 77-year-old gentleman with a history of
emphysema, history of spontaneous pneumothorax, and status
post wedge resection for a history of fungal lung infection
who was admitted with increased dyspnea on exertion,
significantly hypoxic on presentation requiring 100%
nonrebreather to maintain his oxygen saturation, with a
question of sepsis.  Thus, the patient was admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit for sepsis protocol.

1.  INCREASING DYSPNEA ON EXERTION ISSUES:  The primary
differential diagnosis included sepsis, pneumonia, and
congestive heart failure.  No evidence of failure by
examination or on chest x-ray; however, the patient did
receive a small amount of Lasix while in the Intensive Care
Unit.  He diuresed in response to this medication and was
thought to become excessively dry and requested intravenous
fluids to restore urine output.  Thus, congestive heart
failure was thought not to be a component of his
presentation.

On presentation, the patient was noted to have a right lower
lobe infiltrate which was likely responsible for his notably
increasing dyspnea on exertion.  He gave a history of a
recent nonproductive cough and was started on ceftriaxone and
azithromycin.  He received a total of six days of
azithromycin and was to be continued on ceftriaxone for a
total of 14 days for his pneumonia.  He has subsequently been
weaned down from 100% nonrebreather to currently 5 liters
nasal cannula.

With regard to concern for sepsis, the patient received three
days of Xigris versus placebo for participation in a sepsis
protocol.  Blood cultures remained no growth to date, and the
patient's blood pressure remained stable over his hospital
course.

2.  ACUTE RENAL FAILURE ISSUES:  The patient presented to an
outside hospital with a creatinine of 3.2 which subsequently
improved on intravenous fluid hydration.  He is currently
back to his baseline creatinine of 0.8.

3.  ELEVATED INR ISSUES:  The patient was admitted with an
INR of 1.7 which improved with vitamin K.  Likely due to
malnutrition.

4.  GOUT ISSUES:  The patient's allopurinol and Indocin were
held in the setting of acute renal failure.  These
medications may be restarted on discharge.

5.  HYPERTENSION ISSUES:  The patient was continued on his
home dose of beta blocker and was started on an aspirin for
concern of a future risk of coronary artery disease
considering his history of tobacco abuse, hypertension, and
hypercholesterolemia.

6.  NORMOCYTIC VERSUS MICROCYTIC ANEMIA ISSUES:  The patient
was admitted with a hematocrit of 33.8 with a mean cell
volume of 95.  His iron was noted to be 20, with a total
iron-binding capacity of 187, and a ferritin of 446;
consistent with anemia of chronic disease.  B12 and folate
values were within normal limits.  The patient was to follow
up as an outpatient with regard to this issue.

7.  PROPHYLAXIS ISSUES:  The patient was maintained on
subcutaneous heparin twice per day with a bowel regimen.

8.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION ISSUES:  The patient was
maintained on a low-cholesterol, low-fat, 2-gram sodium diet
in addition to Boost shakes twice per day for low albumin
noted at the outside hospital.

9.  CODE STATUS:  The patient is a full code.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:  Community-acquired pneumonia.

CONDITION AT DISCHARGE:  Condition on discharge was fair.
The patient was saturating 94% on 5 liters nasal cannula and
afebrile on by mouth antibiotics.  The patient was tolerating
oral intake.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient was to be discharged to
rehabilitation.

MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
 1.  Atenolol 25 mg by mouth once per day.
 2.  Atorvastatin 10 mg by mouth once per day.
 3.  Percocet one to two tablets by mouth q.4-6h. as needed.
 4.  Tylenol 325 mg to 650 mg by mouth q.4-6h. as needed.
 5.  Zoloft 100 mg by mouth once per day.
 6.  Colace 100 mg by mouth twice per day.
 7.  Senna one tablet by mou