Admission Date:                   Discharge Date: [**2195-1-20**]


Service:  TRA


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 84 year old
male with past medical history of osteoarthritis and alcohol
usage.  He was struck as a pedestrian while crossing the
street.  He was noted to have suffered head trauma.  He was
noted to be confused at the time and came into the [**Hospital1 1444**] Emergency Room with left
wrist and right knee deformity.  He was also complaining of
chest discomfort at this time.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for gastroesophageal
reflux disease, osteoarthritis.  The car was traveling at an
unknown speed at this time.  There was question as to whether
the patient lost consciousness.  The patient's Glascow coma
scale in the trauma bay was noted to be 14 and the patient
was noted to be somewhat confused.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 98.8 degrees; pulse of 84;
blood pressure 210/110; respiratory rate of 15; breathing 100
percent on a non rebreathable mask.  The patient was not
intubated at this time.  He was noted to have a 2 cm, left
sided, frontal head laceration.  Pupils were equal from 3 mm
down to 2 mm.  There were no other obvious head injuries or
deformities. The patient was in a cervical collar at this
time.  Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally with no
wheezes, rales or rhonchi.  Cardiovascular revealed normal S1
and S2 with no murmurs, rubs or gallops.  The patient was
noted to have regular rate and rhythm.  Abdomen was
nondistended with normoactive bowel sounds and was nontender
throughout.  The rectal examination revealed normal tone and
was heme positive.  Extremities revealed  left wrist
deformity and a right knee deformity.  The patient was noted
to have distal pulses that were 2 plus in the dorsalis pedis
and posterior tibial arteries.  Vascular examination was
performed in the trauma bay and was revealed to be negative.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  At this time, the patient was admitted to
the trauma service on [**2194-12-24**].  Laboratory studies
were drawn, revealing an initial hematocrit of 36.0.
Electrolytes were within normal limits.  Coagulation studies
were within normal limits.  Urinalysis revealed trace blood.
Urine toxicology screen was negative.  Serum toxicology
revealed an alcohol level of 23.

Pelvic x-rays were performed that were negative for fracture.
Chest x-ray was performed and CT was recommended to follow
these up as they were equivocal. Right knee revealed proximal
tibia and fibula fracture.  Left wrist x-rays revealed a left
distal radius Colles type fracture. Facial CT was negative.
Head CT was negative.  Chest CT revealed a lung mass
associated with the thoracic vertebra. Abdominal CAT scan was
negative for gross pathology.

Plastics was consulted for his head laceration which was
promptly sewn up.  Orthopedics was also consulted at this
time and made the patient non weight bearing on the right
lower extremity and left upper extremity.  A knee immobilizer
was placed.  A splint was placed on the left wrist.  The
patient was started on Lovenox 30 mg subcutaneously twice a
day, with the plan to take this patient to the operating
room.  Case was also discussed with the orthopedic spine
service.  The patient was also seen by the oromaxillofacial
service to assess this right forehead laceration.  The
patient was also evaluated by the medical team at this time
and it was determined that it would be wise to continue this
patient on telemetry monitoring and send out enzymes, CK, MB
and troponins to rule out myocardial infarction and to check
an electrocardiogram in the morning.  They suggested that the
patient would be safe to proceed to the operating room with
beta blockade perioperatively if he ruled out for a
myocardial infarction.  The patient was also placed on a CIWA
scale for alcohol dependency and to prevent withdraw symptoms
and difficulties.  Benzodiazepine with Haldol were to be
used.  The patient's hypertension was assessed and it was
determined that the patient would benefit from continued beta
blockade.  The patient was also seen by thoracic surgery at
this time for thoracic mass seen on CAT scan.  It was
determined that this was not the most pressing issue for the
patient at this time and that, in the future, this could be
evaluated with possible CAT scan guided fine needle
aspiration.  Pulmonary service was also consulted at this
time.  They determined that bronchoscopy was not indicated at
this time.  They assessed this patient's lung mass as to be
proximal to the descending aorta and spinal cord, with likely
invasion to vertebral bodies.  It was determined that this
was unlikely to be a primary tumor from the lung given his
lack of smoking history.  It was not noted to be spiculated
as well.  It was determined to continue to try to resolve the
multiple issues related to this patient's trauma before
further pursuing this mass found in the thorax.  At this
time, the pulmonary service signed off temporarily with the
trauma team to consult if needed.

On hospital day number three, [**2194-12-26**], the patient
was brought to the operating room for repair of right tibial
plateau fracture.  This was to be done through open reduction
and internal fixation.  However, surgeons were required to
abort the procedure and end surgery early and were unable to
fix his left radius fracture, due to the patient going into
rapid atrial fibrillation. The patient had been shocked three
times without effect and had been placed on Amiodarone drip
to control his rate.  The patient was then admitted to the
trauma Surgical Intensive Care Unit for further monitoring.
He was kept intubated and sedated overnight on Propofol.
Ativan was given.  The patient was continued on a cervical
collar.  The patient had a nasogastric tube at this point and
was n.p.o.  A Foley was in for monitoring of his urinary
output and the splint was continued on the left upper
extremity.  He was to return to the operating room when more
physiologically stable.

Cardiology was consulted at this time.  They recommended
continuing the Amiodarone drip and decreasing his Metoprolol
to 2.5 mg intravenously every six hours and to consider
starting a heparin drip for anticoagulation purposes.  The
patient was evaluated on [**2194-12-29**], on hospital day
number four, for neck pain. The patient had been continuing
to wear a hard neck collar at this time for nondisplaced
spinous process fracture. He had been wearing this for the
risk of ligamentous injury. The plan at this time was to keep
him in the collar for two weeks after which flexion and
extension films could be done to rule out ligamentous injury.
On [**2194-12-29**], the patient was continued intubated and
sedated.

The patient was seen by physical therapy at this time.  The
patient was placed on continuous passive motion of 0 to 60
degrees for two hours at a time.  On hospital day number
five, [**2194-12-28**], the patient had Lopressor and prn
Hydralazine added for systolic blood pressure control. A
nasogastric tube was placed.  Electrolytes were repleted
appropriately.  The patient was then extubated and noted to
have an improved chest x-ray and was now considered more
stable for possible return to the operating room for repair
of his Colles fracture of the left radius.  The patient was
also assessed by the inpatient nutritional team who suggested
having him on tube feeds to go at 70 cc per hour.  On
hospital day number seven, the patient was noted to have
productive cough and heavy secretions and was now febrile.
There was now a new right lower lobe opacity on x-ray with
questionable effusion.  Cultures were sent now and the
patient was started on intravenous Levofloxacin.  The sputum
at this point from [**12-9**] had grown had 4 plus gram
negative diplococci and 3 plus gram negative rods in addition
to 2 plus gram positive cocci.  The patient continued to be
followed by cardiology at this time, in addition to the
orthopedic service.  On [**2194-12-31**], hospital day
number eight, the patient was taken to the operating room and
had open reduction and internal fixation of his left distal
radius fracture.  This occurred without event.  The patient's
intr