Admission Date: [**2108-7-24**]        Discharge Date: [**2108-8-1**]

Date of Birth:  [**2041-9-14**]        Sex:  F

Service:  CSU


REASON FOR ADMISSION:  Ms. [**Known firstname **] [**Known lastname 14875**] is an outpatient
admission to the Cardiothoracic Surgery Service for mitral
valve repair/replacement and coronary artery bypass grafting.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Ms. [**Known firstname **] [**Known lastname 14875**] is a 66-
year-old woman with a history of coronary artery disease
(status post myocardial infarction and right coronary
angioplasty in [**2094**]) who presented with gallstones needing
surgery and was found to have 3-vessel disease and moderate-
to-severe mitral regurgitation on preoperative cardiac
workup.

Cardiac catheterization data revealed an ejection fraction of
45 percent, moderate-to-severe mitral regurgitation, left
atrial enlargement, left anterior descending 80 percent
lesion, left circumflex 80 percent lesion, right coronary
artery small caliber with an 80 percent ostial stenosis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for a myocardial
infarction and an angioplasty in [**2094**], congestive heart
failure, mitral valve prolapse, hypercholesterolemia,
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, osteoarthritis of the left
thumb, cholelithiasis, hysterectomy, with prolapse cystocele
and rectocele, and bladder repair in [**2080**].

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:
1. Ecotrin 325 mg by mouth once per day.
2. Evista 60 mg by mouth once per day.
3. Lanoxin 0.375 mg once per day.
4. Atenolol 25 mg by mouth once per day.
5. Vasotec 2.5 mg by mouth twice per day.
6. Lipitor 40 mg by mouth once per day.
7. Nitrostat as needed.
8. Multivitamin by mouth every day.
9. Lasix 20 mg by mouth every other day.
10.      Calcium 1200 mg by mouth once per day.


ALLERGIES:  PERCOCET (which causes gastrointestinal upset),
SULFA (which causes a rash), AMPICILLIN (which causes
flushing), NEOMYCIN (which causes itching), and ELECTROLYTE
GLUE (which causes hives).

FAMILY HISTORY:  Father at the age of 39 of a myocardial
infarction.  Mother died at the age of 57 of a myocardial
infarction.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a retired nurse.  She lives
with her husband.  She denies alcohol or tobacco use as well
as other recreational drug use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Heart rate was 56
(sinus rhythm), her blood pressure was 112/64, her
respiratory rate was 20, and her oxygen saturation was 95
percent on room air.  Her height was 5 feet 3 inches.  Her
weight was 140 pounds.  In general,  alert and oriented times
three.  A nonfocal examination.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination the pupils were equal, round, and reactive
to light.  The extraocular movements were intact.  The neck
was supple.  There was no lymphadenopathy.  There were no
carotid bruits.  Cardiovascular examination revealed a
regular rate and rhythm.  First heart sounds and second heart
sounds.  There was a 36systolic ejection murmur.  Respiratory
examination revealed the lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  The abdomen was flat, soft, nontender, and
nondistended.  The extremities were warm and well perfused.
No varicosities.  There were positive spider veins.  Femoral
pulses were 1 plus bilaterally, dorsalis pedis pulses were 2
plus bilaterally,  posterior tibial pulses were 1 plus on the
right and 2 plus on the left, and radial pulses were 2 plus
bilaterally.

RADIOLOGY:  A chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly without acute
cardiopulmonary abnormalities.

An electrocardiogram showed sinus bradycardia with Q waves in
leads II, III, and F.  There were flipped T waves in leads
II, III, and F as well.  The rate was 52 beats per minute.  P-
R interval was 18, QRS was 98, QT interval was 400.

PERTINENT LABORATORY VALUES ON PRESENTATION:  White blood
cell count was 8.5, her hematocrit was 40, and her platelets
were 287.  Prothrombin time was 13.1, her partial
thromboplastin time was 27.4, and her INR was 1.1.
Urinalysis with small leukocytes.  Negative nitrites.  White
blood cells of 0.  No bacteria.  Sodium was 142, potassium
was 3.9, chloride was 100, bicarbonate was 30, blood urea
nitrogen was 15, creatinine was 1, and blood glucose was 104.
Alanine-aminotransferase was 21, her aspartate
aminotransferase was 22, her alkaline phosphatase was 72, her
total bilirubin was 0.5, her total protein was 7.3, and her
albumin was 4.4.  Her hemoglobin A1C was 5.5.

SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  As stated previously, the
patient was a direct admission to the operating room where
she underwent a mitral valve repair with number 26
annuloplasty ring and a coronary artery bypass grafting times
two with a left internal mammary artery to the left anterior
descending and saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal.
Her bypass time was 82 minutes with a cross-clamp time of 68
minutes.  Please see the Operative Report for full details.
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred
from the Operating Room to the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care
Unit.

At the time of transfer, the patient was in a sinus rhythm at
80 beats per minute with a central venous pressure of 5 and a
pulmonary artery pressure of 23/11.  She had epinephrine at
0.4 mcg/kilogram per minute, and Neo-Synephrine at 1.25
mcg/kilogram per minute, and propofol at 20 mcg/kilogram per
minute.

The patient did well in the immediate postoperative period.
She was rapidly weaned from the epinephrine drip.  Her
anesthesia was reversed.  She was weaned from the ventilator
and successfully extubated.  She remained hemodynamically
stable throughout the course of her operative day.

On postoperative day one, she remained hemodynamically
stable.  Her Neo-Synephrine drip was weaned to off.  She was
noted to have a hematocrit of 23 and was therefore transfused
with 2 units of packed red blood cells.  The chest tubes
remained in, and she stayed in the Cardiothoracic Intensive
Care Unit for further hemodynamic monitoring.

On postoperative day two, the patient remained
hemodynamically stable.  She was begun on beta blockade as
well as diuretics.  Her Foley catheter and chest tubes were
removed, and she was transferred to the floor for continued
postoperative care and cardiac rehabilitation.  Once on the
floor, the patient's activity level was gradually increased
with the assistance of the nursing staff as well as Physical
Therapy.

On postoperative day five, the patient remained somewhat
tachycardic with a baseline heart rate of 90 to 100 rising to
130 to the 150s with any kind of activity; all as a sinus
rhythm.  The patient was hemodynamically stable with a blood
pressure in the 100s.  However, she was again noted to have a
hematocrit of less than 30 and was therefore transfused with
packed red blood cells.

Over the next two days the patient's beta blockade was
gradually increased in an attempt to control her tachycardia
without much affect.  On postoperative day seven, the patient
was begun digoxin with a further attempt to control the
patient's tachycardia.  At that point, she was given 0.5 mg
orally in two divided doses and then begun on 0.25 mg once
per day.  The following day the patient's tachycardia had
largely resolved.  She was found to have a heart rate/sinus
rhythm in the 80s even with activity.  At that point, the
decision was made that the patient was stable and ready to be
discharged to home at this time.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE:  Vital signs
revealed her temperature was 98, her heart rate was 86 (sinus
rhythm), her blood pressure was 108/62, her respiratory rate
was 18, and her oxygen saturation was 96 percent on room air.
Weight preoperatively was 64 kilogram and on discharge was
62.8 kilogram.  Physical examination revealed the patient was
alert and oriented times three.  She was moving all
extremities and followed commands.  Respiratory examination
revealed the lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and
rhythm.  Normal first heart sounds and second heart sounds.
No murmurs.  The sternum was stable.  The incision with Steri-
Strips, open to air, clean and dry.  The abdomen was soft and
nontender.  There were pos