Admission Date:  [**2147-10-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2147-11-5**]


Service:  [**Location (un) **]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 81 year old
female with a past medical history significant for
hypertension, coronary artery disease status post cardiac
catheterization and stenting, status post ventricular
fibrillation at rest with anterior wall myocardial infarction
([**2147-9-19**]) and congestive heart failure with an ejection
fraction of 20 to 25% who presents from an outside hospital
with cholecystitis status post cholecystotomy tube placement.
The patient is status post a recent prolonged hospitalization
at [**Hospital6 256**] from [**10-6**] to
[**10-18**] for ventricular fibrillation at rest with anterior
wall myocardial infarction requiring two cardiac
catheterizations with evidence of multivessel disease.  The
patient's hospitalization was completed by complete
heartblock requiring transcutaneous pacer placement,
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia requiring implantable
cardioverter defibrillator placement and congestive heart
failure with ischemic cardiomyopathy and ejection fraction of
20 to 25%.  The patient was discharged to a nursing home on
[**10-18**].  While at the nursing home, the patient
reportedly complained of diffuse abdominal pain worsened with
eating and associated with persistent nausea, vomiting, and
fever.  The patient was admitted to an outside hospital on
[**10-30**], where she was found to have acute cholecystitis.
The patient was made nothing by mouth and was started on
total parenteral nutrition.  An abdominal computerized axial
tomography scan and right upper quadrant ultrasound evidenced
distended gallbladder with edema, stones, and sludge.  The
patient was started on empiric antibiotics and underwent an
ultrasound-guided placement of a cholecystotomy tube on
[**10-22**].  The patient continued with persistent abdominal
pain and follow up abdominal computerized axial tomography
scan demonstrated a subcapsular hematoma/bile collection.
The [**Hospital 228**] hospital course was complicated by congestive
heart failure, acute hematocrit drop to 21 requiring blood
transfusion and acute progressive renal failure.  The patient
was reportedly ruled out for a myocardial infarction,
however, developed, per report, a supraventricular
tachycardia requiring the initiation of an esmolol drip prior
to transfer.  The patient was transferred for further
management to [**Hospital6 256**] on
[**10-25**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension; 2.  Diverticulitis;
3.  Coronary artery disease, status post catheterization 15
years ago, status post cardiac catheterization in [**2147-9-19**] with stenting of the left anterior descending artery and
left circumflex artery; 4.  Ventricular fibrillation at rest,
status post anterior wall myocardial infarction; 5.
Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia status post implantable
cardioverter defibrillator placement; 6.  Ischemic
cardiomyopathy with echocardiogram in [**2147-9-19**]
demonstrating left atrial enlargement, aneurysmal apex,
akinetic inferior, lateral and anterior wall with an ejection
fraction of 20 to 25%; 7.  Esophageal stricture status post
dilatation; 8.  Hypercholesterolemia; 9.  Depression.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications on transfer, 1. Zofran
2 gm intravenously q. 6 hours prn; 2.  Ativan 0.5 mg
intravenously q. 4 hours prn; 3.  Subcutaneous heparin 5000
units subcutaneously b.i.d.; 4.  Zoloft 25 mg p.o. q. day; 5.
Imdur 60 mg p.o. q. day; 6.  Protonix 40 mg p.o. q. day; 7.
Unasyn 3 gm intravenously q. 24 hours; 8.  Esmolol drip; 9.
Plavix 75 mg p.o. q. day; 10. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day; 11.
Total parenteral nutrition

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives with her four year old son
who has cerebral palsy.  The patient cares for her son
independently and has five other children with him she is
very closely involved with.  The patient has no previous
current use of tobacco, alcohol or intravenous drug use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Examination on admission revealed
temperature 99.5, blood pressure 134/74, heartrate 90, oxygen
saturation 97% on room air with a respiratory rate of 22.  In
general the patient is a well developed, well nourished
elderly female, Spanish-speaking in mild distress, resting in
bed.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat examination,
normocephalic, atraumatic, anicteric sclera, pupils equally
round and reactive to light and accommodation, extraocular
movements intact bilaterally.  Clear oropharynx, moist mucous
membranes.  Neck examination, no jugulovenous distension,
supple with no lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular examination,
regular rate and rhythm, normal S1 and S2 with a II/VI
holosystolic murmur at the left lower sternal border with no
S3 or S4 appreciated.  Pulmonary examination, clear to
auscultation bilaterally, anteriorly with no wheezes, rales
or rhonchi.  Abdominal examination, normoactive bowel sounds,
distended, soft, diffusely tender to percussion and palpation
with rebound, no masses appreciated.  Cholecystotomy tube in
place.  Extremities, no cyanosis, clubbing or edema, warm and
well perfused, 2+ distal pulses.  Neurological examination is
grossly intact.

LABORATORY DATA/STUDIES:  On transfer complete blood count
with a white blood cell count of 11.6, hematocrit 28,
platelets 200.  Chem-7 with sodium 137, potassium 3.0,
chloride 101, bicarbonate 23, BUN 74, creatinine 1.7, glucose
103, calcium 7.3 with an albumin of 2.7, phosphate 4.1,
magnesium 2.1, coagulation screen with PT of 13.1, INR 1.1,
and PTT 25.8.  Urinalysis was notable for small blood,
negative nitrites, 25 to 50 white blood cells, moderate
bacteria, many yeast, 3 to 5 squamous epithelial cells.
Liver function tests with an ALT of 53, AST 32, alkaline
phosphatase 186 and total bilirubin of 0.9.  LDH 319, amylase
and lipase within normal limits.  Chest x-ray on admission
was notable for cardiomegaly, bilateral pleural effusions,
with increased vascular distribution in the upper lung fields
consistent with congestive heart failure.  Bile cultures from
the cholecystotomy tube without organisms on gram stain and
cultures no growth to date.  Blood cultures from admission
with no growth to date.  Abdominal and pelvic computerized
axial tomography scan notable for normal liver with no ductal
dilatation, moderate quantity of free fluid in the abdomen
and pelvis with hyperdense subcapsular fluid adjacent to the
right lobe of the liver consistent with bile and blood.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was transferred from the
outside hospital and admitted directly to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit.  The patient remained hemodynamically
stable on Telemetry without evidence of supraventricular
tachycardia, previously reported at the outside hospital.
The esmolol drip was subsequently discontinued and the
patient was started on her outpatient dose of beta blocker
with adequate rate control.  The patient was continued off of
Coumadin, given the question of blood loss with the
subcapsular hematoma.  The patient's hematocrit remained
stable without transfusion.  The Surgical Service was
consulted with the recommendation to continue the patient on
total parenteral nutrition with nothing by mouth.  The
patient is not considered a surgical candidate at this time
given her recent myocardial infarction.

Remainder of hospital course by systems:  1.
Gastrointestinal - The patient was transferred with a
cholecystotomy tube for decompression of acute cholecystitis
in the setting of an elevated white blood cell count, fever,
gallbladder distention, gallstones, and pericholecystic
fluid.  The decompression was used as a temporizing measure
without surgical options given the patient's recent
myocardial infarction.  The patient was continued on empiric
antibiotics to complete a ten day course for acute
cholecystitis.  The patient's abdominal examination was
significant for abdominal distention with rebound and diffuse
abdominal tenderness.  The patient was maintained on total
parenteral nutrition with nothing by mouth and pain
management.  A follow up abdominal computerized tomography
scan demonstrated perihepatic fluid collec