Admission Date: [**2193-7-7**]        Discharge Date: [**2193-7-18**]

Date of Birth:  [**2116-8-6**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Progressive dyspnea.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 76-year-old Greek speaking
gentleman with a past medial history significant for
hypercholesterolemia and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease presented to an outside hospital on [**7-7**]
complaining of progressively worsening dyspnea on exertion
initially and at the day of presentation at rest. The patient
also complained of generalized weakness and occasional left
sided chest pain.  His EKG at that time showed sinus
tachycardia with a rate of [**Street Address(2) 64158**] depressions in 1, 2, F
and V4 through V6, elevations with T-wave inversions in V1
through V3. His initial CK was 147 with a troponin of 0.08.
He was given nitroglycerine as well as Lasix and morphine and
transferred to [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 3867**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] [**First Name (Titles) **] [**Last Name (Titles) **] for
urgent cardiac catheterization.  His cardiac catheterization
revealed an aortic valve area of 0.5 cm squared and 3 vessel
disease in LAD with 80% tubulo stenosis, circumflex with a
mid vessel 70% stenosis, and an RCA with proximal 80%
stenosis.  An intraaortic balloon pump was placed and
cardiothoracic surgery team was consulted.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Significant for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, benign prostatic hyperplasia, status post
transurethral resection of prostate, hypercholesterolemia.

MEDICATIONS:  His medications at home include:
1. Spiriva 18 ug q d.
2. Plavix 75 mg q d
3. Crestor 10 mg q d
4  Budesonide inhaler 2 puffs b.i.d.
1. Buflomedil 600 mg q d.


ALLERGIES:  He states an allergy to penicillin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He currently smokes 1 to 1.5 packs per day x
more than 60 years.  Rare alcohol use. Lives with his wife in
the area, visiting with their son.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 97.9, heart
rate 88, blood pressure 111/54, respiratory rate 20, oxygen
saturations 96% on 4 liters nasal cannula.
GENERAL:  In no acute distress. Alert and oriented x 3. He
moves all extremities and follows commands.
HEENT: Pupils are equal, round and reactive to light.
Extraocular muscles intact. Oropharynx is clear. Mucous
membranes moist. Neck is supple with no jugular venous
distention or lymphadenopathy.
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm.
LUNGS: Diffuse inspiratory and expiratory wheezes with rales
in the right base.
ABDOMEN: Soft, nondistended, nontender with normal active
bowel sounds.
EXTREMITIES: Cool and dry with no edema and dopplerable
pulses.

LABORATORY DATA:  WBC 10.2, hematocrit 37.6, platelet count
196, PT 54, INR 1.1, sodium 142, potassium 4.1, chloride 103,
CO2 16, BUN 20, creatinine 1.7, glucose 294. Urinalysis has
protein, otherwise negative. EKG - sinus rhythm with normal
intervals. ST depressions in 1, 2, F, V4 through 6,
elevations with Q wave inversions in V1 and V3. Chest x-ray -
hyperinflated lung fields with moderate congestive heart
failure, no effusions or consolidations.

Following cardiac catheterization the patient underwent
carotid studies which showed less than 40% narrowing
bilaterally.  The following day the patient was brought to
the operating room. Please see the OR report for full
details.

In summary, the patient had an aortic valve replacement with
No. 21 [**Last Name (un) 3843**]-[**Doctor Last Name **] pericardial valve as well as
coronary artery bypass graft x 3 with left internal mammary
artery to the LAD, saphenous vein graft to the diagonal and
saphenous vein graft to the patent ductus arteriosus.  His
bypass time was 190 minutes with cross-clamp time of 145
minutes. He tolerated the operation well and was transferred
from the operating room to the cardiothoracic intensive care
unit. At the time of transfer he was in sinus rhythm at 82
beats per minute with mean arterial pressure of 80. He had
propofol at 20 mics/ kg/ minute, milrinone at 0.5 mics/ kg/
minute, lidocaine at 2 mg per minute. Initially in the
cardiothoracic intensive care unit, the patient had a large
volume of chest tube drainage and after a short period he was
brought back to the operating room for reexploration. At that
time no occult bleeding was found and the patient was re-
wired, stabilized and returned to the cardiothoracic
intensive care unit. He remained hemodynamically stable
throughout that period as well as through his operative day.

On postoperative day 1, given the patient's return trip to
the operating room, it was decided that the patient would
remain sedated throughout the operative night. His FIO2 was
weaned 40% during the course of the night. Following his
return to the intensive care unit, his sedation was
discontinued to assess his neurological status. He awoke and
moved all extremities and became restless and was re-sedated.
On the morning of postoperative day 1, the patient's
intraaortic balloon pump was successfully weaned and
discontinued following which the patient's milrinone infusion
was weaned.  During that period the patient had frequent
burst of rapid atrial fibrillation with a heart rate of 120
to 140. He was begun on amiodarone infusion and was attempted
to cardiovert several times without success.

On postoperative day 2, the patient remained in atrial
fibrillation for which he continued to receive amiodarone
infusion. An attempt again was made to cardiovert the patient
following which he had short periods of sinus rhythm but then
generally returned to atrial fibrillation with a heart rate
of 120 to 130. During this time attempts were also made to
lighten the patient's sedation, however each attempt was met
with periods of agitation and desaturation. By postoperative
day 2 when the patient was sedated, he remained
hemodynamically stable, however attempts to wean sedation
were met with patient becoming hemodynamically unstable and
dyspneic associated with periods of agitation. Following each
period of agitation the patient was resedated.

On postoperative day 3, the patient remained in atrial
fibrillation. He was at that point successfully cardioverted
following which he was again weaned from his sedation. The
patient again became agitated and dyspneic, however he
maintained his oxygen saturations with minimal ventilatory
support.  Neurology service was consulted at that point to
assess the patient for CVA.  He had CT at that time which was
negative for CVA.

On postoperative day 4, the patient remained in sinus rhythm.
His propofol was discontinued. He was placed on Precedex
infusion following which a neuro examination was performed
with his Greek speaking nephew in attendance. At that time
the patient was noted to follow commands, and move all
extremities. He was then successfully weaned from the
ventilator and extubated.

Over the next 24 hours, the patient became less agitated and
more easily reoriented. He remained hemodynamically stable
throughout that period. His chest tubes and temporary pacing
wires were removed, however he was maintained on
cardiothoracic intensive care unit for 2 additional days to
monitor his pulmonary status.

On postoperative day 8, he was transferred to the floor for
continuing postoperative care and cardiac rehabilitation.
Once on the floor, the patient had an uneventful
postoperative course. His activity level was advanced with
the assistance of the physical therapy and nursing staff.
The patient remained in normal sinus rhythm.

On postoperative day 9, it was decided that the following day
he will be stable and ready to be discharged to
rehabilitation center for further postoperative care.

At the time of this dictation the patient's physical
examination was as follows:

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 98.7, heart
rate 97, in sinus rhythm, blood pressure 124/52, respiratory
rate 20, oxygen saturations 96% on 2 liters nasal prongs. His
weight at the time of discharge was 77.3 kilos.
Preoperatively it was 82 kilos.
NEUROLOGIC: Alert and oriented. Moves all extremities well
and follows commands. Nonfocal examination.
PULMONARY: Scattered rhonchi, otherwise clear.
CARDIAC: Regular rate and rhythm S1 and S