Admission Date:  [**2147-9-8**]       Discharge Date:  [**2147-9-20**]



HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 88 year old
female with coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure
and diabetes mellitus who presented with fever, abdominal
pain after being found down at her nursing home.  Her history
patient is a resident at [**Hospital3 2558**] who was found status
post questionable fall the morning of admission and was noted
to have a left-sided weakness without head trauma or loss of
consciousness.  The fall was unwitnessed.  Subsequently the
patient had a large occult blood positive stool and was also
found to have complaints of abdominal pain.  At the nursing
home the temperature was 102.1 with a pulse of 126, blood
in by ambulance to [**Hospital6 256**]
Emergency Department for evaluation with a temperature of
103.2, pulse 120, blood pressure 108/40 and respiratory rate
of 30 with an oxygen saturation of 94%.  In the Emergency
Department the patient was found to have an increased
respiratory rate.  She denied cough, chest pain, shortness of
breath, nausea and vomiting or dysuria.  She did complain of
abdominal pain and diarrhea.  The patient is demented at
baseline.  The patient denied any fevers or chills prior
though it is unclear but it is possibly p.o. intake had been
decreased for several days.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease, status post
congestive heart failure with last admission in [**2144-4-5**]
for diastolic heart failure, Type 2 diabetes, dementia,
benign positional vertigo, status post cholecystectomy,
status post femoral neck fracture on the right with a
hemiarthroplasty, chronic anemia with hematocrit of 29 and
B12 deficiency.

ALLERGIES:  Benzodiazepine which causes severe agitation.

ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1.  Multivitamin
2.  Enteric coated Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
3.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
4.  Prinivil 30 mg p.o. q.d.
5.  Megace 400 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
7.  Isordil 30 mg p.o. t.i.d.
8.  Neurontin 100 mg p.o. q. 6
9.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination revealed a
temperature of 103.2, pulse 120, blood pressure 108/40 and
respiratory rate of 30 and oxygen saturation of 94%.  The
patient was an awake, alert, tachypneic elderly white female
in mild distress.  Pupils were left, surgical, minimally
reactive, right reactive.  Extraocular muscles grossly
intact.  Oropharynx, mucous membranes were dry, edentulous.
Neck was supple with jugulovenous distension of 10 cm, no
lymphadenopathy.  Cardiovascular examination, tachycardiac,
normal S1 and S2.  Lungs with decreased breath sounds
bilaterally anteriorly at the bases, otherwise clear to
auscultation.  Abdomen was diffusely tender with bowel
sounds, no masses, no organomegaly and mild distention.
Occult blood positive brown stool per the Emergency
Department.  Back examination, positive costovertebral angle
tenderness bilaterally per Emergency Department.  Extremities
with 1+ pitting bilaterally with no edema.  Left hip with 5
cm erythematous abrasion, no pelvic instability, no pain to
passive range of motion of the left hip.  No abrasions on the
upper extremity.  Neurological examination, per the Emergency
Department, alert answering questions in Russian.  Cranial
nerves III through XII grossly intact.  Left arm, flaccid, no
response to pain.  Left leg withdraws to pain but also
flaccid.

LABORATORY DATA:  Admission laboratory data revealed a white
blood cell count 17.1, hemoglobin 10.0, hematocrit 30.0,
platelets 346,000.  PT was 12.2, PTT 19.1, INR 1.0.  100
white blood cells on urinalysis.  Glucose was 308, BUN 74,
creatinine 2.1, sodium 148, potassium 5.8, chloride 113,
bicarbonate 12, ALT 54, AST 125, CK 6,163, alkaline
phosphatase 53, total bilirubin 0.5, CK MB 84.  Albumin 3.8,
calcium 9.1, phosphorus 6.3, magnesium 2.7.  Cardiac troponin
greater than 50.

Base x-ray on [**9-8**] revealed a right lower lobe opacity
with atelectasis and probable pneumonia.  Computerized
tomography scan on [**9-8**] revealed no evidence of acute
intracranial hemorrhage.  Computerized tomography scan of the
abdomen on [**9-8**] revealed a small right pleural effusion
with bibasilar atelectasis right greater than left with dense
vascular calcification.  There was a large hiatal hernia,
nonspecific large bowel wall thickening without stranding or
pneumatosis which could not exclude bowel ischemia, probable
sacral myelocele was there as well.  Computerized tomography
scan of the cervical spine on [**9-8**] revealed degenerative
joint disease without evidence of acute fracture.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the Medicine
Intensive Care Unit.  Given her high troponin levels,
Cardiology was seen in consultation and they felt that it was
not appropriate to cardiac catheterize the patient at that
time.  Given her history of large bloody stool, the patient
was not deemed a candidate for heparinization either.  She
was maintained on Aspirin, Beta blocker and as lytes improved
an ACE inhibitor was added as well.  During her course in the
hospital the patient did continue to have transient chest
pain which was often relieved by Nitroglycerin but no
electrocardiogram changes were found.  Some episodes of chest
pain did have to be treated with 1 mg of intravenous
morphine.  The patient was placed on Nitropaste to provide
longterm pain relief and the patient's episodes of chest pain
subsided.

Infectious Disease - The patient was seen to have probable
sepsis with several possible etiologies including the
possibility of ischemic bowel as indicated by the
computerized tomography scan as above, infectious colitis and
urosepsis.  The patient was treated with antibiotics and a
Surgery consultation was obtained.  The patient was taken to
the Operating Room on [**9-9**] for an exploratory laparotomy
to rule out ischemic bowel and it was ruled out by this
procedure.  Please see the operative note dictation for
further details of this procedure.  To continue the workup of
her diarrhea, the patient received stool cultures which were
all negative and Clostridium difficile cultures which were
negative times three.  The patient's diarrhea continued and
ultimately it was felt that possibly the diarrhea was caused
by her antibiotics.  After an acceptable course of antibiotic
therapy for her urosepsis and pneumonia these were
discontinued and the diarrhea did resolve.  The patient did
receive a transfusion of 4 units of packed red blood cells
over her stay in the hospital due to a low hematocrit and her
history of coronary artery disease and recent myocardial
infarction.

Renal - The patient did have acid based abnormalities with a
respiratory alkalosis and metabolic acidosis likely lactic
acidosis secondary to sepsis with an anion gap.  There was no
evidence of ketones.  Electrolytes and bicarbonate were
administered to adjust the patient's electrolyte status.  The
patient's renal failure was attributed to prerenal azotemia
and she was hydrated to relieve this.  Electrolyte adjustment
continued throughout her stay in the Medicine Intensive Care
Unit as well as her stay on the floor.

Neurologic - The patient was considered as possibly having
had a cerebrovascular accident.  Computerized tomography scan
in the Emergency Department was negative for any new
ischemia.  It was felt that sepsis and/or ischemia may be
unmasking left-sided weakness.  The patient was followed with
a repeat computerized tomography scan and was seen by the
Neurology Consult Service.  The patient's weakness did
resolve.  No further workup ensued at this point.

Gastrointestinal - The patient was admitted with bloody
diarrhea as described above.  The workup above was undertaken
and in addition further computerized tomography scans were
obtained after the patient was transferred from the Medicine
Intensive Care Unit to the General Medical Floor because of
ongoing diarrhea.  One of these abdominal computerized
tomography scans revealed a small well circumscribed lesion
in the pancreas.  The patient's lipase was elevated.  The
question was raised as to whether or not the patient may be
experiencing pancreatitis and the patient was mainta