Admission Date:  [**2129-6-30**]     Discharge Date:  [**2129-7-6**]


Service:  MICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Shortness of breath.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an 88 year old
female with a history of COPD and coronary artery disease who
had a recent long hospitalization for shortness of breath
presumed to be secondary to COPD and had chest pain of
unclear etiology.  She now presents early this morning after
calling EMS in respiratory distress.  EMS noted that she was
wheezing, using respiratory accessory muscles and slightly
diaphoretic, although oriented.  She was given albuterol and
Atrovent nebs with some decrease in her level of distress.
Her O2 sats were noted to be 98% at that time.  In the
emergency room she was again noted to be wheezing and had
worsening PO2 that did not improve with nonrebreather or
BiPAP.  The patient had ABG performed which revealed pH of
7.22, PCO2 89, PO2 18 in room air.  The patient was
subsequently intubated and admitted to the MICU.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Coronary artery disease status post
CABG in [**2121**].  Negative P-thal in [**2128-10-13**].  Negative
pain MIBI recently.  COPD on 0.5 liters of O2 at home at
baseline.  Left bundle branch block.  Hypertension.  Pleural
plaques.  History of PPD positive.  History of PE.
Peripheral vascular disease.  Chronic renal insufficiency.
Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.

MEDICATIONS:  Include aspirin 81 mg q.d., Combivent two puffs
q.i.d., Coumadin dose unknown, Flovent 220 two puffs b.i.d.,
Isordil 20 mg t.i.d., Lasix 40 mg q.d., Lipitor 10 mg q.d.,
lisinopril 40 mg q.d., Prilosec 20 mg q.d., verapamil 80 mg
t.i.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is from [**Country 3587**] and speaks
Portuguese only.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission blood pressure was
209/102, pulse 115.  Patient sedated with endotracheal tube
in place with clear secretions coming from the oropharynx.
Neck: there was no JVD, no bruits of the carotids.  Pulmonary
exam showed good air movement on the vent, no wheezing at
this time.  Cardiovascular tachycardic, PMI prominent, no
murmurs.  Abdomen soft, nontender, good bowel sounds.
Extremities had trace lower extremity edema, no palpable
cords.  Skin warm and dry.  Numerous areas of ecchymosis.  On
neuro exam the patient was sedated, moving all four limbs
spontaneously.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission white count was 13.7,
hematocrit 39.9, platelets 323.  SMA-7 was 141, 4.8, 101, 27,
25, creatinine 1.7, glucose 124.  PTT 34.8, INR 1.4.  The
patient had an initial ABG on room air of 7.22, PCO2 89, PO2
18, bicarb 38.  The patient had repeat ABG once intubated
with pH of 7.34, PCO2 55, PO2 470, bicarb 31.  Lactate was
2.3.  EKG revealed sinus tachycardia with old bundle branch
block, rate 157.  Chest x-ray revealed old pleural
parenchymal disease in the left lower lobe and left middle
lobe, mild CHF.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Hypoxia.  The patient was admitted in respiratory arrest
and found to be hypoxic.  The patient was subsequently
intubated secondary to respiratory arrest.  The patient did
well on the vent, maintaining good O2 saturations.  The
patient was able to be extubated.  The patient was intubated
on [**2129-6-29**], and was subsequently extubated on the 21st,
doing well, maintaining good O2 sats throughout her stay.

2.  COPD.  Patient admitted with most likely COPD
exacerbation leading to respiratory arrest leading to
intubation.  The patient was started on IV Solu-Medrol for
COPD flare.  The patient also received Atrovent and albuterol
nebulizers p.r.n. and continued MDI.  After extubation the
patient's oxygenation improved markedly.  The patient's IV
Solu-Medrol was switched to p.o. prednisone and the patient
was discharged on a prednisone taper as well as Combivent MDI
and Flovent MDI.

3.  Cardiac.  The patient was admitted with shortness of
breath, questionable mild CHF on exam.  The patient had runs
of SVT in the MICU which were consistent with atrial
tachycardia.  The patient was started on amiodarone 200 mg
q.d., however, after discussion with cardiology and the
primary care physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) **] patient's amiodarone was
discontinued prior to discharge.  The patient had no
subsequent runs of SVT after her transfer from the MICU to
the medicine floor.

4.  Hypertension.  The patient was admitted with blood
pressure in the 200/100 range.  The patient was on lisinopril
40 mg q.d., Isordil 20 mg t.i.d., verapamil 80 mg t.i.d.  The
patient's verapamil was increased to 120 mg t.i.d.  The
patient was also started on hydralazine as well as Isordil,
Zestril 40 mg q.d.  Beta blockers avoided secondary to COPD.
The patient's blood pressure responded with the increased
dose of verapamil and hydralazine.  The patient's blood
pressure was under control upon discharge.

5.  Cardiac ischemia.  The patient ruled out for MI.  The
patient had three sets of negative cardiac enzymes.  The
patient has left bundle branch block at baseline.  The
patient was considered for cath, but she refused.  The
patient had an echo which was essentially normal with no
evidence of any regional wall abnormalities that were new.
The patient was discharged on aspirin and Lipitor.

6.  Chronic renal insufficiency.  The patient was admitted
with a creatinine clearance of 30 ml per minute, question of
renal artery stenosis which was not worked up.  The patient's
creatinine remained stable throughout her stay.

7.  Diabetes.  The patient's blood sugars remained stable on
insulin sliding scale and NPH 5 in the morning and 2 in the
evening.

8.  GI.  Patient with a history of abdominal pain.  The
patient has had an extensive workup which was essentially
normal including MRCP and MRA to rule out mesenteric
ischemia.

9.  ID.  The patient was found to have a urinary tract
infection on [**2129-6-27**], and was started on a three day
course of ciprofloxacin 200 mg q.d.

DISPOSITION:  The patient was transferred from the MICU to
the floor on [**2129-7-4**], and subsequently discharged home
on [**2129-7-6**].

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  COPD exacerbation leading to respiratory arrest and
intubation.
2.  Supraventricular tachycardia.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Same as on arrival with the addition
of increase of verapamil to 120 mg t.i.d., increase of Lasix
from 20 to 40 mg q.d.  Hydralazine 10 mg q.i.d. was added.
The patient was sent home on a prednisone taper starting at
40 mg p.o. q.d.

FOLLOWUP:  The patient will follow up with Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) 122**]
[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 8499**] upon discharge.





                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) 10134**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 11525**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2439**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2129-10-13**]  18:02
T:  [**2129-10-16**]  09:44
JOB#:  [**Job Number 11545**]
