Admission Date: [**2161-4-25**]        Discharge Date: [**2161-5-5**]

Date of Birth:  [**2091-9-6**]        Sex:  M

Service:  CCU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 69-year-old gentleman
with known coronary artery disease status post myocardial
infarction in [**2154**] with PTCA and stenting of the right
coronary artery, who had a 50 percent lesion of the left
main, with an ejection fraction of approximately 20 percent.
The patient presented to the [**Hospital6 2018**] with two episodes of presyncope and chest discomfort.

He was evaluated in the Emergency Department at an outside
hospital and sent home.  On the way home, the patient
experienced presyncope and presented to the outside hospital
there.  Troponin was positive, but CK's were negative.  The
patient had recurrent pain Thursday and Friday and came to
the emergency room on Friday night.

There CK peak was 961, MB 58, troponin 2.2.  The patient had
ischemic changes with ST depressions in V3-V6 and more pain
on Saturday in the hospital.  The patient was transferred
here for urgent for catheterization.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Otherwise, the patient's past medical
history is significant for diabetes, hypertension, coronary
artery disease with catheterization on [**2160-3-28**], with a
2 percent left main, right coronary artery stent patent,
ejection fraction of 23 percent, cardiac index 1.9.  The
patient has a history of peripheral vascular disease.
Echocardiogram performed in [**2161-2-9**] revealed an ejection
fraction of 25 percent with mild mitral regurgitation.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Lipitor, Digoxin,
Lopressor, Bumex, Zestril, Glucotrol.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  No tobacco.  No ETOH.  Distant use of ETOH.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  On admission the
patient's blood pressure 88, heart rate 106, respirations 14.
General:  The patient was in no acute distress.  HEENT:
Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Extraocular movements intact.
Oropharynx clear.  Neck veins were engorged.  Heart:
Irregularly irregular.  No murmurs.  No clicks or gallops.
Abdomen:  Obese, nontender.  Normoactive bowel sounds.
Extremities:  Free of any clubbing or cyanosis, but 1 plus
pitting edema bilaterally.  Pulses:  Dopplerable throughout.
Neurologic:  Cranial nerves intact.  Examination was
nonfocal.

STUDIES:  Electrocardiogram on [**4-25**] showed atrial
fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, IVCD, ST
depressions in V3-V6, and low voltage was noted.

Cardiac catheterization showed a cardiac index of 1.6, PA
saturation 45 percent, RA 20, PA 55/30, pulmonary capillary
wedge 38, left main 95 percent stenosis, 3.5 x 8  stent
placed, right coronary artery stent patent.

LABORATORY DATA:  Sodium 134, potassium 3.8, chloride 97,
bicarb 24, BUN 31, creatinine 1.2, glucose 244; white count
16.4, hematocrit 31.5, platelet count 190; INR 1.6; ABG 7.42,
35, 67.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Myocardial infarction:  The patient's post myocardial
   infarction care included the following:  The patient had a
   stent placed to the left anterior descending coronary
   artery.  He remained on Aspirin and Plavix and initially
   on an intra-aortic balloon pump if the patient was in
   cardiogenic shock.  The pump was maintained at 1-2.  Given
   the patient's history of atrial fibrillation, the patient
   was also continued on a heparin GTT while on the intra-
   aortic balloon pump.

Eventually the patient was weaned off the balloon pump and
tolerated this without difficulty.  His cardiac function
remained stable once the balloon pump was discontinued.

The patient had an echocardiogram which revealed an ejection
fraction of 15-20 percent, LA that was elongated, RA that was
mildly dilated, dilated left ventricle with severe global
left ventricular hypokinesis, aorta mildly dilated, no atrial
fibrillation, no aortic regurgitation, trivial tricuspid
regurgitation, mild pulmonary hypertension.

For cardiac ischemia, the patient was maintained on Aspirin
and Plavix.  He was also maintained on Digoxin for congestive
heart failure.  The patient was also maintained on Lipitor,
and for blood pressure management was maintained on Captopril
t.i.d. and Toprol XL 25 q.d.

By the time of discharge, the patient was changed to
Lisinopril 10 q.d. and Toprol XL 25 q.d.  Otherwise, the
patient was continued on Aspirin, Plavix, and Lipitor.

For congestive heart failure, the patient was initially
aggressively diuresed with intravenous Lasix.  He was later
changed to a p.o. regimen of Lasix 40 p.o. q.d.
Spironolactone was added with good affect.  The patient was
also continued on Digoxin 0.125 q.d.

1. Rhythm:  The patient was initially in atrial fibrillation
   with rapid ventricular response.  His rate was controlled
   with p.o. Lopressor and later changed to Toprol XL.
   Additionally, the patient was maintained on Amiodarone at
   200 q.d.

The patient was evaluated by the Electrophysiology Service,
and it was recommended that the patient continue on
Amiodarone, Lopressor, and Coumadin for anticoagulation.  The
patient is to see the EP Service outpatient given that he had
episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia during his
hospitalization.  He will likely get cardioverted plus or
minus ICD placement on an outpatient basis.

1. Infectious disease:  During his hospitalization, the
   patient had a temperature of 102.3 times one.  After that,
   he had no further temperature spikes.  His blood and urine
   cultures grew out coag-negative Staphylococcus that was
   pansensitive, and in particular to Oxacillin.  The patient
   was initially maintained on Vancomycin 1 g b.i.d. and
   later changed to Oxacillin.

Throughout his hospitalization, the patient's remainder blood
cultures, urinanalysis, and urine culture remained sterile.
The patient was to continue on Oxacillin for a total of two
weeks.

The patient was discharged to a nursing home/rehabilitation
for continuation of intravenous antibiotics.  He had a left
PICC placed after blood cultures were negative for greater
than 48 hours.

1. Type 2 diabetes:  The patient was initially maintained on
   Insulin GTT, later changed to Glipizide 10 p.o. q.d. and
   regular Insulin sliding scale.  At discharge, he was to
   continue the Glipizide 10 q.d.

1. Prophylaxis:  The patient was maintained on a bowel
   regimen of Protonix and Coumadin.

1. FEN:  The patient was maintained on a cardiac and diabetic
   diet.

1. Code status:  Full code.

The patient was evaluated by Physical Therapy, and they
signed off, as the patient was ambulating without difficulty.

DISCHARGE LABORATORY DATA:  White count 9.5, hematocrit 33.5,
platelet count 254; INR 3.8; sodium 137, potassium 4.3,
chloride 100, bicarb 28, BUN 17, creatinine 1.0, glucose 106;
calcium 8.2, magnesium 2.0, 55.2.

FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
1. Coronary artery disease with myocardial infarction status
   post catheterization with stent to left main coronary
   artery.
2. Atrial fibrillation.
3. Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.
4. Hypercholesterolemia.


FOLLOW UP:  The patient is set up with a follow-up
appointment with his primary cardiologist two weeks after
discharge.  He is also set up with his primary care physician
within two weeks of discharge.  The patient has an
appointment with Dr. [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Initial (NamePattern1) **]. [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 284**] at the Division of
Cardiology in the [**Hospital Ward Name 23**] Building, on [**2161-6-11**], 1:30
p.m.

MAJOR PROCEDURES PERFORMED:  Status post cardiac
catheterization with stent to left main artery.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Aspirin 325 one p.o. q.d., Plavix 75
mg 1 p.o. q.d. for 6 months, Atorvastatin 80 mg 1 p.o. q.d.,
Digoxin 0.125 mg 1 p.o. q.d., Pantoprazole 40 mg 1 p.o. q.d.,
Amiodarone 200 mg 1 p.o. q.d., Furosemide 40 mg 1 p.o.
b.i.d., Spironolactone 25 mg 1 p.o. q.d., Toprol XL 25 mg 1
p.o. q.d., Glipizide sustained release 10 mg 1 p.o. q.d.,
Lisinopril 10 mg 1 p.o. q.d., Oxacillin 2 g IV q.6 hours for
a total of 9 days.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Outpatient laboratory work on [**5-6**], the patient is to
   have his PT and INR checked and is to restart Coumadin is
   his INR is less than or equal to 2.5.  The result