Admission Date: [**2163-1-19**]        Discharge Date: [**2163-2-17**]

Date of Birth:  [**2086-11-3**]        Sex:  M

Service:  VSU


SERVICE:  Vascular surgery.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  76 year-old male, status post
endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair on [**1-12**]
at [**Hospital6 2561**]. Transferred to our institution for
ICU bed.  The patient presented for an elective aortic
aneurysm repair that was complicated by intraoperative
bleeding secondary to left iliac artery injury at the outside
institution.  Intraoperative hematocrit at the institution
was 11 with an estimated blood loss of 3 liters to 5 hour
case.  Postoperatively, the patient was aggressively
resuscitated with packed red blood cells, FFP and
Crystalloid.  The patient had a shocked liver with a
transaminase in the 7000's. Also, acute renal failure ensued.
The patient developed pulmonary edema, pseudomonal pneumonia
which was treated at the outside institution with Zosyn and
Cipro.  The patient developed a septic shock picture on
[**1-16**] which required pressor support.

The patient also underwent hemodialysis at the outside
institution. The patient arrived at our institution on
[**2163-1-19**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypercholesterolemia, type II
diabetes, hypertension, colon cancer, coronary artery
disease, status post myocardial infarction, peripheral
vascular disease.  First degree AV block, anemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Colon resection for cancer.  CABG.
Left femoral stent placement.  Carotid endarterectomy.
Pacemaker.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Lisinopril, Lipitor, Nifedipine,
Avandia, Lopressor.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On presentation, temperature was
100.6; heart rate 81; blood pressure 109/34; respiratory rate
20, 92%. The patient was on assist control, 60%, 20 by 600
with PEEP of 20. CVP was 22.  Pulmonary artery pressures were
62 over 31.  The patient was sedated, with sluggish pupils.
Heart was regular rate and rhythm.  He had decreased breath
sounds at bilateral bases. Abdomen was soft and distended.
There was 2+ edema with dopplerable PT and DP bilaterally.
The patient was admitted to the vascular surgery service.

A summary, in a concise fashion, is shown below in order of
systems.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Neurologically, the patient was sedated
with Propofol for prolonged periods of time as well as
Fentanyl and Ativan.  When the patient was lightened from all
sedation, he intermittently moved his upper extremities but
never moved his lower extremities and also never followed
commands.

Cardiovascularly, the patient had intermittent uses of
Levophed for hypotension, particularly toward the end of his
hospital course when he became septic.  The patient had
bigeminy, multiple PVC's and sporadic atrial fibrillation for
which he was started on heparin.

Pulmonary:  The patient was vented on assist control, SIMV at
all times. He did not tolerate pressure support weans.

Gastrointestinal: The patient was initially started on tube
feeds with an abdominal CT scan early on admission in our
institution revealed question of ischemic colitis.  Tube
feeds were stopped.  TPN was initiated. The patient's abdomen
became distended the second week of [**Month (only) 404**] significantly.
He had an elevated white count of 36,000 as well as fevers
and hypotension. It was decided at this time to drain a
pancreatic pseudo cyst. Cultures from this were essentially
negative, however, the patient did began to have some
hemorrhagic episodes into the pancreatic pseudo cyst where
the percutaneous needle was placed. This required multiple
units of transfusion.  At this time, heparin was
discontinued.  The patient also had splenic infarct noted on
his CAT scan.

Genitourinary:  The patient was initially started on CPVH
which was weaned off; however, at the end, the creatinine
increased and his urine output decreased.  Hematologically,
he was on heparin for atrial fibrillation which was
discontinued toward the end of the admission.

Infectious disease:  The patient was on broad spectrum
antibiotics through the entire course.  He did have
pseudomonas and yeast in his sputum.

Endocrine:  The patient was on insulin sliding scale and the
patient required insulin drip during the admission.

The patient became septic toward the end of the admission,
requiring increased pressors and his creatinine increased.
His urine output decreased.  It was decided at this time,
after extensive discussions with the family, that further
care should not be instituted.  The transplant surgery
service was willing to do an exploratory laparotomy and to
explore any pancreatic necrosis as well as any issues which
would have been found in the abdomen; however, in discussion
with the family, it was decided that no intervention would be
done.  The patient remained comfort measures only and the
patient expired thereafter shortly on [**2163-2-19**].



                        [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], [**MD Number(1) 5697**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 368**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2163-2-20**] 15:58:00
T:  [**2163-2-21**] 07:09:14
Job#:  [**Job Number 106421**]
