Admission Date:  [**2200-12-17**]       Discharge Date:  [**2200-12-28**]


Service:  [**Hospital Unit Name 196**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 78 year old man
who was seen in the Emergency Room the day prior to admission
for a facial rash and swelling affecting his right eye, cheek
and upper lip with a diagnosis of zoster versus herpes
simplex virus versus impetigo and he was sent home on
Acyclovir and Augmentin.  He returned on the day of admission
with acute decompensation with increased shortness of breath.
The patient stated that for the past two weeks he has had
decreased fatigue but everything worsened the two days prior
to admission.  The morning of admission he felt extremely
short of breath when he woke up but he denies any chest pain,
abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, fevers or chills.  He also
denies any changes in his diet, any lightheadedness or
dizziness and no other recent symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Diabetes, insulin dependent; 2.
Peripheral vascular disease with three bypass operations; 3.
History of congestive heart failure with question of
diastolic dysfunction; 4.  Spinal stenosis; 5.  Chronic renal
insufficiency; 6.  Hypercholesterolemia; 7.  Abnormal liver
function tests; 8.  Pacemaker.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  1.  Isosorbide 20 mg t.i.d.; 2.
Neurontin 300 mg t.i.d.; 3.  Atenolol 50 mg b.i.d.; 4.  Iron
sulfate 325 mg q.d.; 5.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.; 6.  Zocor
10 mg q.d.; 7.  Folic acid 1 mg q.d.; 8.  Nephrocaps 1 tablet
q.d.; 9.  Insulin 30 units NPH q. AM, 4 units regular q. AM
and 30 units NPH q. PM.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is retired, used to work for
Pulley Production.  He currently lives with his wife in
[**Name (NI) 4565**].  He used to smoke two cigars per day for over 24
hours but quit 15 years ago.  He denies any alcohol or drugs.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient's temperature on admission
was 95.6 with a heartrate of 100 to 105, blood pressure
182/76, respiratory rate 30, with an oxygenation of 100% on
nonrebreather, 92% on room air.  On general examination he
was in moderate respiratory distress.  His head, eyes, ears,
nose and throat examination, he had right-sided facial
erythema and edema with a crusted skin, no vesicles were
noted.  His lungs showed wheezes, rubs and crackles at the
lower bases.  His cardiovascular examination showed him to be
tachycardiac with a normal S1 and S2 and III/VI systolic
ejection murmur at the lower left upper sternal border.  His
abdomen was obese, soft, and nondistended with active bowel
sounds.  His extremities showed 3+ pitting edema up to his
knees, right side greater than the left.  His right arm was
also slightly more swollen than his left.  On neurological
examination he was alert and oriented.  His cranial nerves
were intact, his motor and sensory examination was grossly
intact.  Deep tendon reflexes were 2+ throughout.  His toes
were downgoing.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory studies on admission revealed
the patient's white blood cell count was 16.0 with a
hematocrit of 39.8 and platelets 225.  His sodium was 135,
potassium 4.3, chloride 98, bicarbonate 18, BUN 69,
creatinine 3.0.  Glucose 170, and liver function tests were
normal.  Calcium was 9.1, magnesium 2.1, phosphate 4.1,
initial creatinine kinase was 455 with MB of 14, admission
troponin was 4.7.  Electrocardiogram showed a paced rhythm
tachycardiac to 110 with no clear T changes visible.  Chest
x-ray showed an enlarged heart with no pleural effusions, no
pneumothorax but he did have diffuse opacities consistent
with pulmonary edema.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  1.  Cardiovascular - It was felt that the
patient's myocardial infarction was the cause of his dyspnea,
however, it was felt that given that he was hypertensive for
over three hours he just well might need to demand ischemia
and he was evaluated by cardiac enzymes.  His aspirin, Zocor
and Atenolol were continued.  He was started on a heparin
drip.  He was also continued on his Imdur, Lasix and
Hydralazine was started for congestive heart failure.  His
initial creatinine kinase was 455, 520 and peak at 528 at the
next creatinine kinase and then 44 and 75 before beginning to
decline again.  The MB peaked at 30 at next draw and troponin
peaked at greater than 50.  Given the severity of the
patient's dyspnea and pulmonary edema, he was admitted to the
CCU for diuresis.  An echocardiogram was obtained which
showed ejection fraction of 35%, mild symmetric left
ventricular hypertrophy as well as inferior and inferolateral
akinesis and skeletal right ventricular free wall
hypokinesis.  The patient had 2+ tricuspid regurgitation.
The tricuspid regurgitation gradient was 63.  Given the
aortic stenosis as well as severe pulmonary hypertension the
patient was taken to the Catheterization Laboratory on
[**12-18**].  The catheterization revealed right ventricular
pressures of 82/20, PA pressures of 82/23 and   pressure of
31 mean.  Cardiac index was 2.2.  The cardiac catheterization
also revealed 80% proximal right coronary artery lesion, 70%
mid right coronary artery lesion and 100% right posterior
lateral lesion.  Given the patient's severe peripheral
vascular disease the Catheterization Laboratory was unable to
pass a catheter big enough for stenting and the lesions were
not intervened on.  Before the patient was admitted to the
CCU for intensive diuresis with intravenous Lasix, as well as
Nitrocort drip and high dose Hydralazine.  Also on [**12-18**], the patient had a 16 beat run of ventricular tachycardia
which was asymptomatic.  The Electrophysiology Service was
consulted regarding the pacer.  They interrogated the pacer
on [**12-18**] and noted 312 mode switch episodes since
[**2200-1-24**].  The patient's fittings were adjusted to DDDR
from 60 to 120 with an ADR of 140.  A-V delay was set to 170
with a P-V delay of 150 and PV [**Last Name (un) **] was increased to 325
milliseconds.  The pacemaker was judged to be functioning
adequately.  The patient continued to diurese well in the CCU
with 120 mg of intravenous Lasix t.i.d. as well as Nitrocort
and was transferred back to the floor on [**2200-12-21**]
for further diuresis.  All of the patient's cardiac
medications were continued and Nitrate was added to the
Hydralazine.  The Nitrocort was stopped on [**12-23**] and
the Lasix was slowly decreased back to a p.o. dosing of 80 mg
q.d.  The patient underwent a repeat cardiac catheterization
through the radial artery on [**2200-12-22**].  The stents
were placed in the proximal and mid right coronary artery
lesions.  The patient tolerated this procedure without
complications and had no chest pain at any time.  The
patient's cardiac enzymes remained stable and the patient's
rhythm remained stable throughout the rest of the
hospitalization.

2.  Pulmonary - The patient was found to be have pulmonary
hypertension by the initial cardiac catheterization.  This
was felt to be at least partially due to left ventricular
failure as well as fluid overload.  The Pulmonary Service was
consulted.  They also felt that obstructive sleep apnea could
be playing a contributory role.  Their recommendations
include a polysomnography as an outpatient as well as
potentially placing the patient on CPAP with a repeat
echocardiogram to be done in the future to evaluate the
pulmonary artery hypertension.  The patient's respiratory
status improved with continued diuresis and on the day of
discharge his oxygen saturation was 95% on room air and the
patient felt his breathing was at baseline.

3.  On admission the patient's creatinine had been 3.0 which
was slightly elevated from his baseline in the mid 2s.  The
Renal Service was consulted regarding the potential need for
dialysis.  They did not feel at this point that dialysis was
warranted as the patient was improving on aggressive diuretic
regimen.  All the medications were dosed renally and the
patient's creatinine stabilized with a value of 2.7 on the
day of discharge.

4.  Infectious diseases - On admission the patient was found
to have a facial disease consistent with zoster as well as a
likely superinfection.  He had been started on Acyclovir and
Augmentin 