Admission Date:  [**2116-7-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2116-8-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2054-1-23**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARDIOTHORACIC

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 62 year-old gentelman
patient of Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 2201**] was referred for outpatient
cardiac catheterization.  He had symptoms of chest pain that
typically occurred after eating.  He had been treating this
as a GI symptom, but was referred to his doctor and on [**7-17**] he underwent an exercise tolerance test, which showed
electrocardiogram changes.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Hypertension.  2.
Hypercholesterolemia.  3.  Question of arthritis.  4.  Status
post vagotomy in the [**2084**].  5.  Status post cholecystectomy
in the [**2094**] with two follow up surgeries for abdominal
adhesions in the [**2094**].  He had a cardiac catheterization
done on [**7-21**].

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Atenolol 25 mg po q.d., Lipitor 40
mg po q.d., Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg po q.d., Celebrex 200
mg po b.i.d., Diovan 80 mg po q.d., Zantac 150 mg po b.i.d.,
Percocet prn and Valium prn.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

ADMISSION LABORATORIES:  Day prior to catheterization were
white count 7.4, hematocrit 35.2, platelet count 274,000 with
an INR of 1.1.  His catheterization showed 70% less main
lesion, proximal right coronary artery lesion of 90%, right
posterolateral ventricular branch 100% lesion, circumflex 80%
lesion and mild luminal irregularities of the left anterior
descending coronary artery.  It also showed an ejection
fraction of 51%.  Please refer to the cardiac catheterization
report on [**7-21**].  He was referred to Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **] of
cardiac surgery who examined him on the 21st. He also had no
history of claudication.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  He was alert and oriented.  His lungs
were clear.  His heart was regular rate and rhythm.  Preop
his BUN was 28 with a creatinine of 1.3 and his hematocrit
was 35%.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  On [**7-23**], he underwent coronary artery
bypass graft times four with a left internal mammary coronary
artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery, vein
graft to the posterior descending coronary artery, vein graft
to the PLV and a vein graft to diagonal one by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **].
He was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit in stable
condition on propofol and nitroglycerin.  On postoperative
day one he had no events overnight.  He remained on a
Nipride drip at 0.5 mcg per kilo per minute.  He was
extubated and sating 96% on 4 liters.  He had a cardiac index
of 3.2.  He was in sinus rhythm in the80s with a good blood
pressure.  His white count was 9.4, hematocrit 22.3,
platelet count 207,000, sodium 134, K 4.7, chloride 101, CO2
23, BUN 18, creatinine 1.3 with a blood sugar of 149.  His
examination was unremarkable.  He started his Lopressor and
aspirin.  He began his Lasix diuresis.  His chest tubes were
discontinued as was his Swan-Ganz catheter and he was
transferred out to the floor.

He was seen by physical therapy there and began his
ambulation.  On postoperative day two he was sating 94% on 3
liters with a blood pressure of 150/78.  He had a temperature
max of 102.1.  His heart was regular rate and rhythm.  His
incisions were clean, dry and intact with mild bilateral
lower extremity edema.  His Foley was removed.  His Lopressor
was increased for better blood pressure control.  His
hematocrit remained 22.2.  On postoperative day three he
remained in sinus rhythm.  He was readmitted to the Intensive
Care Unit for transfusion reaction.  His lactic acid was 2.0.
 Additional laboratories were drawn.  He was awake and alert.
 He had no wheezing.  His heart was regular rate and rhythm.
He had some minimal swelling of his extremities.  His
abdominal examination was benign.  He continued with his rule
out protocol.  He was on Dopamine at 3 micrograms for
improving his urine output.  He got D5W with three amps of
bicarb, which had been started overnight and a renal consult
was requested and complete urinalysis was done.

On postoperative day four he had a temperature max of 100.6
with a good blood pressure.  He was sating 94% on 6 liters
nasal cannula.  He remained on Dopamine, Lasix.  His
hematocrit rose to 25.4.  His white count rose to 17.8.  K
was 3.4 with a BUN of 48 and a creatinine of 2.5.  He had
decreased breath sounds at bilateral bases of his lungs, but
his heart was regular rate and rhythm.  The dopamine was to
be weaned off and he was transferred back out to the floor.
He was seen again by physical therapy.  He had good clinical
improvement from his transfusion reaction.  On postoperative
day five his blood pressure was slightly elevated at 157/96.
His sternum was stable.  His abdominal examination was
benign.  His incisions were clean, dry and intact.  His Foley
remained in place as did his pacing wires.  His central line
was removed.  His hematocrit remained 25.4, which was to be
monitored.  The patient became agitated in the middle of the
night and he took off his O2 and telemetry and gown and the
nurses tried to reorient him.  Eventually the intern
convinced the patient to take some Valium and it was arranged
for a sitter to stay with the patient and monitor him closely
through the night.

He again then wandered from his room and left his room again
at 5:30 in the morning on the 29th.  Security found him
downstairs in the cafeteria drinking coffee.  He was
reoriented again back to the floor by psychiatry staff who
responded to the code purple.  His blood pressure was 190/80
when they returned him to his room.  He received another dose
of Lopressor to help bring his blood pressure down.  He was
started on Haldol and was again accompanied by a sitter.  His
hematocrit rose to 26.1 on postoperative day six with a BUN
of 52 and a creatinine of 2.4.  His K was 5.0 with a
magnesium of 2.3.  His sternum was stable and his examination
was again unimpressive.  It was determined that he should
have a sitter until his mental status showed clear
improvement.  He was again combative at 9:00 a.m.  He was
placed in four point restraints.  A full set of laboratories
was drawn again.  A chest x-ray was done.  He was also to be
followed by security for a 24 hour period while he continued
Haldol therapy on Far Six.  His chest x-ray showed a
decreased effusion.  No localized infection was noted.  At
8:00 in the evening on postoperative day six the patient's
blood pressure rose to 265/130.  He had a temperature max of
103 and was in sinus tachycardiac, tachypneic in the 30s and
was with rigors.

Neurologically he was seen again by the CT Surgery fellow
that evening.  He was neurologically intact with normal
speech and following commands.  His chest wall sternum were
stable.  His lungs were clear.  His heart was regular rate
and rhythm.  He had no erythema or signs of infection in his
wounds.  His chest x-ray early in the day had showed no
infiltrates.  His white count was 12.1 with a hematocrit of
26.  He received Demerol.  Blood cultures were obtained.  His
electrocardiogram showed no signs of ischemia.  He was given
Hydralazine intravenous to manage his acute hypertension and
he was transferred back to the Intensive Care Unit.  He was
seen by psychiatry who recommended again that this was
probably delirium and to keep him in restraints with possibly
some deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis.  The asked that his
Serax and Valium be minimized.  He was seen by case
management.  He remained with a security sitter.  His
transfer to the Intensive Care Unit was canceled after his
rigors resolved and his blood pressure responded to the
intravenous Hydralazine.

On postoperative day seven he remained in a Posey belt for
his agitative episodes over the night.  He was started on
Ciprofloxacin for empiric coverage.  His BUN was 42.  The
creatinine of 1.7 with a K of 3.5.  His alkaline phosphatase
was elevated at 456, otherwise his laboratories were
unremarkable.  His white count was 12.1 with a hematocrit of
26.2.  His incisions were clean, dry and intact.  Urine
culture was reordered.  His physical examination was
unremarka