Admission Date:  [**2198-8-25**]       Discharge Date:  [**2198-8-30**]


Service:  C-MEDICINE

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a [**Age over 90 **] year old Caucasian
female with a past medical history significant for
hypertension and atrial fibrillation.  She presented with
anterior myocardial infarction to the CCU status post
catheterization. The patient states that Saturday morning
while preparing some breakfast, she began to have substernal
pain described as crushing sensation.  She states that she
has a history of gastroesophageal reflux disease and that she
took TUMS.  The pain was not relieved.  EMS was called and
the patient was brought to the Emergency Department.  In the
Emergency Department, the patient was given Nitroglycerin,
Lopressor 5 mg q5 times three.  She had diffuse ST elevations
in leads V2 through V3.  At that time, she was admitted to
the C-Medicine and nothing was done due to the resolution of
ST changes. On [**2198-8-26**], the patient began to have chest pain
once again described as substernal and crushing.  CK showed
713, up from 52, the first laboratory value.  A
catheterization was done and showed mild disease in left main
coronary artery and moderate proximal disease in left
anterior descending with total occlusion after D2 with faint
left to left collaterals.  There were elevated right and left
heart filling pressures with moderate pulmonary hypertension
with a markedly depressed cardiac output.  At that time, the
patient was given intravenous Milrinone for the decreased
cardiac output.  A stent was deployed in occluded left
anterior descending.  The patient arrived at the CCU at
approximately 3:00 p.m.  Upon arrival, the patient was found
to be alert, with no apparent distress.  She did not complain
of shortness of breath.  She did, however, complain of
palpitations.  At that time, a chest x-ray was ordered and it
showed worsening congestive heart failure marked by
cephalization and pleural effusion.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Migraine.
2.  Uterine cancer.
3.  Iron deficiency anemia.
4.  Atrial fibrillation.
5.  Hypertension.
6.  Aortic stenosis.
7.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
8.  Osteoarthritis of the right knee.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Clonidine 0.2 mg.
2.  Amiodarone 100 mg once daily.
3.  Cardizem 300 mg once daily.
4.  Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg once daily.
5.  Ranitidine 75 mg once daily.
6.  Diovan 80 mg once daily.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Hysterectomy and lymphectomy.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Significant for mother with coronary artery
disease.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone at Admiral [**Doctor Last Name **]
Living facility.  No alcohol or tobacco use.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Positive history of migraines.  Positive
hearing loss.  No history of nasal congestion. Positive
dryness of mouth secondary to medications.  The patient has a
positive history of aortic murmur, positive palpitations,
positive leg edema in both extremities, no dyspnea.  Lungs -
no history of shortness of breath, no recent history of
bronchitis or pneumonia, no history of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.  Abdominal - positive history of
constipation, melanotic stools occasionally, no diarrhea, no
weight loss, however, recent weight gain of three pounds.
Genitourinary - no history of frequency, no history of
dysuria, no hematuria.  Positive history of uterine cancer
with hysterectomy.  Extremities - positive history of leg
edema.  Upper extremities showed bruising.  Hematology -
positive history of anemia.  No history of hemophilia.
Neurologically, no decrease in sensation, no history of
numbness or tingling sensation in extremities.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs revealed temperature 97.2,
pulse 85, blood pressure 137/74, oxygen saturation 91% on
four liters, pulmonary arterial pressure 54/22.  Head, eyes,
ears, nose and throat examination - The pupils are equal,
round, and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular
movements are intact.  The pharynx is normal, pink.  Tongue
nonmottled.  The heart is irregular S1, S2, heart rhythm,
grade III murmur second intercostal space.  Lungs - positive
rales heard anterolaterally.  Abdominal examination showed no
tenderness, nondistended, positive bowel sounds.  Extremities
- right groin site negative hematoma, no bruit was noted.
Negative tenderness.  Good posterior tibial and dorsalis
pedis pulses in both feet.  Neurologically, cranial nerves II
through VI, VII through XII are intact.  Hearing aid present
in the right ear.  Sensory intact.  Motor [**5-19**] throughout.
Reflexes +[**3-20**] throughout upper and lower extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  White blood cell count 12.4, hemoglobin
9.0, hematocrit 30.1, platelet count 39,900, MCV 76.0. CK
666, CK MB 76, troponin 2.19.  This was up from 1.95 with
earlier laboratory study.  Sodium 133, potassium 3.1,
chloride 93, bicarbonate 32, blood urea nitrogen 23,
creatinine 0.6, glucose 156.  Liver enzymes were as follows:
ALT 17, AST 52, alkaline phosphatase 61, total bilirubin 2.0,
calcium 9.7, phosphorus 3.0, magnesium 2.2.  Urinalysis was
done and it was negative.

Chest x-ray showed fluffy infiltrates, right pleural
effusion, cardiomegaly.

Catheterization results were as follows:  Left main coronary
artery showed mild disease.  Left anterior descending showed
moderate proximal disease, total occlusion after D2 with
faint left to left collaterals.  D2 has 50% stenosis.  Left
circumflex showed moderate diffuse disease.  Right coronary
artery nondominant.  Right atrial pressure is mean 15, aortic
pressure 132/82, pulmonary artery 50/25, right ventricular
pressure 50.

Electrocardiogram showed ST elevations in anterior leads, V2
and V3.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Rales on lung examination and pleural
infiltrates on chest x-ray.  She also showed jugular venous
distention of about seven centimeters on the right atrium.
We also continued the Integrilin that she was started on in
the catheterization laboratory and continued Aspirin and
Nitroglycerin drip.  Metoprolol was discontinued because of
decreased cardiac index.  The patient was continued on
Milrinone for decreased cardiac output until 8:00 a.m.  She
was then started on Digoxin because of history of atrial
fibrillation and decreased cardiac output.

She was given one unit of blood secondary to hemoglobin of
9.0.  Valsartan was discontinued and the patient was started
on Captopril 12.5 mg three times a day for post myocardial
infarction protocol.  The patient received 80 mg potassium
secondary to laboratory value of 3.1.  She was diuresed once
more with 20 mg of Lasix.  She responded well putting out
approximately two liters.

She was found to be confused overnight and was started on
Seroquel.  The next morning she was found to be awake, alert
and oriented times three.  Digoxin was discontinued and
Amiodarone was increased to 200 mg p.o. three times a day for
rate control.  This was secondary to a heart rate in the one
teens.  Beta blocker was increased to 12.5 mg and Captopril
was increased to 50 mg p.o. three times a day.

On [**2198-8-28**], the patient was found to have a nosebleed after
sitting up and using the bathroom.  It was believed that this
was due to a vasovagal response.  The patient responded well
to pressure.  No other events of bleeding during her stay.

Oxygen was turned off and Heparin was stopped for one hour
and then restarted.  The patient was given Coumadin at 6:00
p.m. secondary to being high risk of thrombus formation,
anterior myocardial infarction and also a history of atrial
fibrillation.

A transthoracic echocardiogram was done and it showed left
atrium moderate dilatation.  It also showed moderate regional
left ventricular systolic dysfunction with focal akinesis.
She had an ejection fraction of 30 to 35%.  Also found was 1%
aortic regurgitation and 1+ mitral regurgitation.  On
[**2198-8-29**], the patient was taken for transesophageal
echocardiogram guided cardioversion secondary to conversion
of atrial fibrillation into atrial flutter.  The patient
tolerated conversion well, was given 200 joules and is now in
sinus rhythm.

The patient was found to be acceptable to go to
rehabilitation tomorrow by physical therapy consultation