Admission Date:  [**2145-12-29**]       Discharge Date:

Date of Birth:   [**2095-7-24**]       Sex:  F

Service:  Cardiothoracic Surgery

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 50 year old female
with a past medical history for Type 2 diabetes,
hypertension, hyperlipidemia, three vessel coronary artery
disease by catheterization report from [**2145-5-30**] with a
90% left anterior descending lesion at the mid left anterior
descending as well as an oblique marginal 1, 80% lesion,
status post stent times two to the right coronary artery who
presents with complaint of shortness of breath.  She was
admitted to [**Hospital6 256**] on [**2145-12-29**] and at that time she told the admitting medical
service that about 5 PM on the night of admission she was
experiencing sudden onset of shortness of breath and felt
like she was having some substernal chest pressure.  She took
a single sublingual nitroglycerin with some relief of her
shortness of breath.  Because of the persistence of her
shortness of breath she thought it was appropriate to come to
the Emergency Room for care.  In the Emergency Room she was
given Lasix, Nitroglycerin paste as well as oxygen with some
relief of her dyspnea.  When she was evaluated by the Medical
Service she was short of breath at that time.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Her past medical history was already
previously stated.  She has had an old inferior myocardial
infarction, catheterization following inferior myocardial
infarction which was complicated with a tertiary
atrioventricular block, at that time showed a normal left
ventricular function, left ventricular hypertrophy and some
inferior wall hypokinesis.  Her other medical problems were
Type 2 diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, three vessel
coronary artery disease by catheterization on [**5-30**].
Socially she is a smoker.  Risk factors included coronary
artery disease, diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
hyperlipidemia, smoking and a positive family history.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Initial evaluation in the Emergency Room
included a chest x-ray showing mild pulmonary vascular
congesting, blunting of the right cardiophrenic angle and a
questionable small right pleural effusion.  Her admission
electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm, heartrate in
the 80s, there is borderline left axis, old evidence of a
previous inferior infarct as well as poor R wave progressions
noted.  There was no real change from an electrocardiogram
evaluated from [**2145-6-9**] compared to the admission
electrocardiogram of [**2145-12-29**].  Given the congestive
heart failure exacerbation she was therefore here for rule
out myocardial infarction protocol.  She was subsequently
given Lasix and nitrates as needed.  She was scheduled for
cardiac echocardiogram the day following admission.  On
hospital day #2 the patient underwent a cardiac
echocardiogram which had shown an ejection fraction between
25 and 30%, down 50% from seven months prior to admission.
Additionally it showed severe global hypokinesis, there is
evidence of the old basal inferior and mid inferior
infarction, secondary to akinesis.  There was new anterior
apical and apical akinesis as well.  Her ejection fraction
was again 25%.  Her left atrium was 4.6 cm in size.

Her admission laboratory data were remarkable for chemistry
profile of 137 sodium, 5.1 potassium, 109 chloride, 23
bicarbonate, 24 BUN, creatinine 1.2, sugar 132.  Her CK was
184 with an MB fraction of 6, troponin I of .5.  Admission
complete blood count was 13,000 white count, hematocrit of
35, 419 platelets with a normal differential.  Given the
change in her echocardiogram it was thought that this
probably is secondary to some type of either diastolic
dysfunction or it is some type of ischemic change that is
creating this wall defect and subsequent congestive heart
failure picture.  Cardiac consultation was acquired and the
patient subsequent underwent cardiac catheterization during
her hospital stay.  On [**2145-12-31**], the patient
underwent cardiac catheterization which had shown a left
anterior descending anatomy with 70% proximal narrowing and a
superimposed 90-95% lesion.  There is good mid and distal
vessel present but there are no right to left collaterals by
the sections that were seen.  The left circumflex was noted
for an 80% mid obtuse marginal 1 lesion, mild disease at the
origin of obtuse marginal 2.  The right coronary artery was
widely patent with the right coronary artery stent as
previously mentioned.  There is a 50% origin posterior
descending artery lesion as well.  The left internal mammary
artery, not selected, showed large widely patent left
internal mammary artery.  The left main coronary artery was
calcified, however, not obstructed.  Given this three vessel
disease in a diabetic patient with a drop in ejection
fraction it was felt that a consultation with Cardiac Surgery
and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] was the most appropriate next step in her
care.  Therefore, Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] was asked to see the patient on
[**1-1**].  Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] visited with the patient and reviewed
all of the available information and discussed the options of
going forward with an operation.  The patient agreed and she
was therefore brought to the Operating Room on [**2146-1-3**] where she underwent a three vessel coronary artery
bypass graft, left internal mammary artery to left anterior
descending, saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal 1 and
a saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery.
Postoperatively the patient was extubated on the night of
surgery.  She did well hemodynamically.  By postoperative day
#1 she was actually appropriate for transfer to the floor and
was put on a cardiac diabetic diet.  She was started on
Lasix, Lopressor and Aspirin.  Her chest tube was removed.
Postoperative laboratory data was a white count of 19,000 up
from 10,000 on admission, 34 for hematocrit down to 32, 823
platelets, up from 399.  Her chemistries were just noted for
BUN/creatinine of 21 and 1.3.

Upon transfer to the floor the patient was started on
physical therapy and she began ambulating with assistance.
Telemetry monitoring was continued.  Her wires were removed
on postoperative day #3.  She continued to progress, was
tolerating a regular diet and had no fluid requirements from
an intravenous standpoint.  Her Foley catheter was removed
and she was voiding spontaneously.  Postoperative chest x-ray
without the chest tubes showed no pneumothorax, minimal
vascular congestion.  She had some resolution of her right
pleural effusion but persistent blunting of the cardiophrenic
angle.  On the final day, [**2146-1-7**], the patient was
afebrile, doing well.  Her temperature maximum was 98.8, her
pulse was 76, 126/60 blood pressure, 20 respiratory rate 94%
on room air.  Fingersticks were under 200.  She was down to a
weight of 54.3, still about 3 kg positive and she had no
evidence of jugulovenous distension or bruits in her neck.
Her sternum was stable with no erythema and no exudate.
Heart was regular with no murmur, no gallop rhythm.  Her
lungs were clear to auscultation with decreased breathsounds
at the bases.  There are no crackles present.  Her abdomen
was benign.  Her lower extremities are noted for warm, well
perfused with capillary refill.  Her pulse examination was
palpable femoral pulse bilaterally, palpable dorsalis pedis
and posterior tibial bilaterally.  There is no evidence of
femoral bruit or aneurysm in the right groin at the site of
the previous cardiac catheterization insertion.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day
2.  Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3.  Lasix 20 mg p.o. q. day times seven days
4.  Potassium chloride 20 mEq p.o. q. day times seven days
5.  Percocet 5/325 p.o. q. 4 prn
6.  Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. as long as she is taking
Percocet
7.  Additionally she will be utilizing Ibuprofen 400 mg p.o.
q. 6 prn
8.  Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q. day
9.  Glucophage 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.
10. Protonix 40 mg p.o. q. day
11. Captopril 6.5 mg p.o. t.i.d., hold for a blood pressure
of less than 90

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  Be seen by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] one month from
the time of discharg