Admission Date: [**2138-11-19**]        Discharge Date:  [**2138-11-22**]

Date of Birth:  [**2058-9-21**]        Sex:  F

Service:  [**Last Name (un) 7081**]


DIAGNOSIS:  Foreign body aspiration.

OTHER DIAGNOSES:  Atrial fibrillation, respiratory failure,
pacemaker placement, hypertension and subglottic stenosis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 80-year old female
with respiratory failure and subglottic stenosis versus,
tracheomalacia; and with possible subglottic stenosis the
patient was trach'ed after a foreign body aspirate and
transferred from [**Hospital1 **] for a rigid bronch and
microdebridement at the [**Hospital1 18**]. The patient also has a history
of a UTI.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Notable for CHF, AFib, hypertension,
CVA, the patient on a vent is treated for C. diff.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Notable for a tracheostomy and PEG
which was placed in [**2138-9-21**].

MEDICATIONS AT HOME:  Include aspirin, diltiazem, Lasix,
Prevacid, thiamin, multivitamin, calcium and vitamin D,
heparin subcutaneously, oxycodone, Protonix, albuterol,
ciprofloxacin and vancomycin p.o..

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient denies tobacco or EtOH.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  The patient was on admission afebrile
with vital signs stable. She was in no acute distress. She
was awake, and alert, and oriented. She was regular rate and
rhythm with no murmurs, rubs or gallops. Her airways were
clear, but decreased breath sounds. Her belly was soft,
nontender, nondistended. She had no clubbing, cyanosis or
edema of her lower extremities. The patient was admitted for
a rigid bronch and T-tube placement.

PERTINENT RESULTS:  The patient had a chest x-ray which was
obtained on [**2138-11-20**] after a PICC line was placed in
the right arm to evaluate subglottic stenosis. The PICC was
found to terminate in the soft tissue of the axilla 5 cm
below the shoulder joint. Path tissues were also obtained
from the microdebridement which are pending at this point. A
chest x-ray was obtained on admission - on [**2138-11-19**]
- which showed stable bilateral pleural effusions in the
lower lobes bilaterally.

The patient was admitted on [**2138-11-19**] with a white
count of 6.3, hematocrit 30.2, platelet count of 327. Sodium
was 130, potassium was 5.0, chloride was 97, bicarbonate was
23, BUN was 14, creatinine 0.6 and glucose 141. All labs
remained stable throughout her hospitalization course, and
she required no transfusions.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted under Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] on
[**2138-11-19**]. She was admitted to the surgical ICU at
the [**Hospital1 18**]. She was made n.p.o.. She was given IV fluids. Her
tube feeds were held. Her hematocrit remained stable, which
was previously noted. She was started on vancomycin and
levofloxacin for C. diff and a UTI. A Foley was then placed.

On [**11-20**], the interventional pulmonary service saw the
patient in the morning; at which point a flex bronch was
performed at the bedside and a rigid bronch and
microdebridement were planned for the following day. The
patient was bronch'ed on [**2138-11-20**]; which showed a
subglottic stenosis with a right lower lobe endotracheal
tube. There was mild supraglottic edema. There was subglottic
stenosis with malacia. The patient was then taken to the
operating room again on [**11-20**] for a rigid bronch,
microdebridement and a T-tube placement. The goal of T-tube
was to have it capped 24 hours a day/7 days a week. If the
patient needs to be uncapped then she should be put on
humidified air. A speech and swallow eval was requested.
Guaifenesin 1200 mg b.i.d. was to be used for T-tube. She was
then supposed to be transferred to rehab. The patient was
capped with her T-tube, however, she developed desaturations
into 80% immediately postop. She was then placed back on
humidified air and tolerated it well, and saturations came up
into the 90s.

The following day - on [**2138-11-22**] - the patient was
once again transferred to have her T-tube capped. She
tolerated it well. Kept her saturations in the 90s for
several hours, in which case she was then transferred back to
her humidified air tracheal collar for increased comfort.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  She is to be discharged on
acetaminophen, aspirin, calcitonin, calcium carbonate,
heparin, diltiazem, Colace, Lasix, Hexavitamin, oxycodone,
thiamin, vitamin D3, albuterol, pantoprazole, Anzemet,
morphine, vancomycin, guaifenesin, glycerin suppository.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient was told that she had a
T-tube placed in the hospital. The goal of her breathing was
to have her T-tube clamped 24 hours a day/7 days a week.
However, she was told that if she has any shortness of breath
that she may go back onto a tracheal collar on humidified
until the time at which she can tolerate the tube being
clamped. She was told to continue her tube feeds, and that
she should remain n.p.o.. She is also to have guaifenesin
1200 mg b.i.d. for care of the T-tube and to receive O2 by
nasal cannula. Her tube feeds are ProBalance at 50 cc an
hour, which includes 1440 kilocalories and 65 grams of
protein. She is to have her abdomen examined on a regular
basis and to have her electrolytes checked on a routine
basis. The patient was also told to call Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] for a
follow-up visit for a flexible bronchoscopy in 2 weeks.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Good; she is saturating well; she is
afebrile; her vital signs are stable.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  She is to be transferred to her rehab
facility in the morning.



                        [**Name6 (MD) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], MD [**MD Number(2) 286**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 29268**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2138-11-22**] 02:34:49
T:  [**2138-11-22**] 10:09:12
Job#:  [**Job Number 52549**]
