Admission Date:  [**2148-7-1**]       Discharge Date:  [**2148-7-8**]

Date of Birth:   [**2079-4-21**]       Sex:  F

Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 69-year-old woman with
a past medical history of myopathy and restrictive lung
disease requiring nightly BIPAP and multiple intubations in
the past.  The last admission was in [**Month (only) 547**] of this year for
pneumonia and hypercarbic respiratory failure.  She has a
history of CO2 retention.  According to her daughter, the
patient presents with four to five days of confusion and
fatigue with slurred speech consistent with the patient's
past presentation for hypercarbia.  Over the past 24 hours
prior to admission the nursing home where she lives ([**Hospital3 15416**]) noted that her O2 saturations were lower than
baseline.  She was confused and having low grade
temperatures.  She also by report had systolic blood
pressures to the 80s and had new onset atrial fibrillation
where she was given Diltiazem in the field and converted to
normal sinus rhythm.  In the Emergency Department, she was
noted to have a temperature of 101 degrees Farenheit with a
blood pressure of 140/64, heart rate in the 80s to 100s, O2
saturation 90-92% on 100% non-rebreather.  Her initial
arterial blood gas was 7.25/135/65.  She was started on BIPAP
but her systolic blood pressure dropped to 65/21.  She
received 2 liter normal saline bolus with her systolic blood
pressure going up to 99.  Repeat arterial blood gas was
7.24/123/96.  She was intubated and transferred to the MICU
for further care.  Of note, the patient had been on Cipro for
a urinary tract infection for three days prior to admission.
The patient's daughter reports she had not complained of
pain, chest pain, shortness of breath, increased cough from
her baseline or change from her baseline, or clear sputum
production.  There has been no nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or
headaches.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  The past medical history revealed
steroid-dependent myopathy diagnosed in [**2145**], possibly
inclusion body myositis with restrictive lung disease.  Her
last pulmonary function tests in [**2147-4-15**] revealed an FVC
of 65%, FEV1 71%, 1.29 liters, with a ratio of 109%.  DLCO
was slightly decreased which was felt to be consistent with a
mild restrictive picture.  Her baseline bicarbonate is 30-40
with baseline pCO2 probably in the 60s.  She is on home O2 as
well as evening BIPAP.  The patient has a history of
diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, liver
hemangioma, depression, and gastrointestinal bleed.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  There is no alcohol and no tobacco use
reported.  She lives in an [**Hospital3 **] facility, [**Hospital3 15416**].

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no reported drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  Vital signs revealed
temperature 96.8 degrees Farenheit, blood pressure 97/76,
heart rate 106, O2 saturation 89-99%.  In general, this is a
sedated intubated woman in no apparent distress otherwise.
HEENT was anicteric, PERLA.  The neck was supple.  JVD could
not be assessed as she was lying flat.  Chest examination
revealed coarse breath sounds with rhonchi bilaterally
auscultated anteriorly.  Cardiac examination revealed
irregularly irregular with no murmurs, rubs, or gallops
appreciated, tachycardiac.  The abdomen was soft, nontender,
and nondistended with normal bowel sounds.  The extremities
revealed no cyanosis, clubbing, or edema.  On neurologic
examination, the patient was sedated.  The toes were
down-going bilaterally.  She was moving all four extremities
spontaneously.

LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell count was
17.3 with hematocrit 39.5 and platelets 140,000 with 89
polys, 8 lymphocytes, 2 monocytes.  Sodium was 140, potassium
3.4, chloride 94, bicarbonate greater than 45, BUN 22,
creatinine 0.6, blood sugar 151.  Urinalysis revealed 1.017,
trace protein, 500 glucose, no red blood cells or white blood
cells.  Chest x-ray #1 showed a new basilar left lower lobe
consolidation with no effusion.  EKG #1 showed atrial
fibrillation at 108 with left axis deviation, no Qs, no ST or
T wave changes.  EKG #2 revealed normal sinus rhythm at 86,
left axis deviation with no ST or T wave changes.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Evista 60 mg p.o. q. day, Lasix 20
mg p.o. q. day, Mysoline 200 mg p.o. q. day, Neurontin 600 mg
b.i.d. and 300 mg q. afternoon, Prednisone 30 mg p.o. q.o.d.,
Prilosec 40 mg p.o. q. day, Prinivil 10 mg p.o. q. day,
Valium 2 mg p.o. b.i.d., Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d., Effexor
75 mg p.o. b.i.d., calcium chloride 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
Combivent 3 puffs q.i.d., Tylenol p.r.n., Milk of Magnesia
p.r.n., Artifical Tears 2 drops in each b.i.d. p.r.n.,
Trazodone 150 mg p.o. q.h.s., Cipro 250 mg p.o. b.i.d. x 3
days, Duragesic patch 50 mcg q. 72 hours, iron 325 mg three
times a week, Bactrim double strength one tablet three times
a week, aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day, Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.
day, Imuran 250 mg p.o. q. day, Claritin 10 mg p.o. q. day.

HOSPITAL COURSE
Pulmonary:  The patient was intubated for hypercarbic
respiratory distress.  On [**2148-7-5**], she was extubated with an
arterial blood gas of 7.39/79/83 and kept on BIPAP at night.
Her respiratory status at the time of discharge revealed no
respiratory distress and she was saturating 94% on 2 liters
by nasal cannula.

Infectious disease:  The initial chest x-ray was suggestive
of a left lower lobe pneumonia and she was treated initially
with Levofloxacin and Flagyl for both a community acquired
pneumonia and a possible aspiration pneumonia.  Vancomycin
was added to this regimen as well.  Her Vancomycin and Flagyl
were discontinued after hospital day #5 and she was continued
on p.o. Levofloxacin to complete a 7 day course again for
presumed left lower lobe pneumonia.

Cardiovascular:  The patient had one EKG during her
hospitalization which revealed atrial fibrillation but since
has been in normal sinus rhythm with occasional atrial
ectopy.  As she became hemodynamically stable, her
antihypertensives were restarted.  She continued to have some
mild ectopy by telemetry but remained in normal sinus rhythm.
She had elevated CPKs as high as 489 with normal MB fraction
but had a troponin of 3.6.  At the time of discharge, her
troponin was less than 0.3.  Her cardiovascular issues will
be worked up further as an outpatient.

Neurology:  The patient has a history of steroid-dependent
myositis, possibly inclusion body myositis.  Her neurologist,
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 557**], was helping with the management of her
neurologic issues.  The patient was restarted on her Imuran
as at some point it had been discontinued and was initially
on stress dose steroids during her hypotensive episode but
was put back on Prednisone and will have her Prednisone
tapered at rate as determined by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) 557**].

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Effexor 75 mg p.o. q. day, Neurontin
600 mg p.o. q.a.m. and q.h.s., Neurontin 300 mg p.o. at 2:00
p.m., aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day, Tums 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.,
iron sulfate 325 mg TIW, Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.,
Neutra-Phos 2 packets q.i.d., Prinivil 10 mg p.o. q. day,
Evista 60 mg p.o. q. day, regular insulin sliding scale,
Dulcolax 10 mg p.o. q. day p.r.n., Protonix 10 mg p.o. q.
day, Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d., Levaquin 250 mg p.o. q. day
x 7 days--the last dose should be on [**2148-7-8**], Imuran 250 mg
p.o. q. day, Prednisone 60 mg every other day q. Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday, then Prednisone 40 mg every
other day starting next week Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, and
Monday, followed by Prednisone 60 mg every other day q.
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday in an alternating
fashion.






                            [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 4263**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 19359**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2148-7-8**]  09:49
T:  [**2148-7-8**]  11:05
JOB#:  [**Job Number **]
