Admission Date:  [**2176-12-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2177-1-1**]

Date of Birth:   [**2100-1-19**]       Sex:  M

Service:

The patient had the beginnings of a previous dictation,
however, that was cut off in the middle so please disregard
that dictation and use this one for the dictation of the
hospital course beginning [**2176-12-5**] through [**2177-1-1**].

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  Mr. [**Known lastname 7111**] is a 76 year-old male
with multiple medical problems including diabetes type 2,
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, PMR, prostate cancer with
a chronic indwelling Foley, anemia, nephrolithiasis, gout who
presents with slurred speech, right arm weakness and edema.
History was difficult to obtain in the Emergency Department.
Apparently this slurred speech and ________ was worked up at
the [**Hospital6 1708**] four days ago.  He had
return of these symptoms.  He is status post prostate cancer
with radiation therapy.  He has had a chronic indwelling
Foley for obstruction and is followed by [**Hospital6 **]
Urology.  His friend states that the patient's Foley stopped
draining urine four days ago and had immediate onset of
symptoms.  He denies fever, cough, shortness of breath,
abdominal pain.  In the Emergency Department the Foley was
draining brown opaque questionably feculent urine material
irrigated by urology with a clot removal and hematuria.  The
patient had a blood pressure drop to 84/41 and received 4
liters of intravenous fluids and found to have a hematocrit
of 20.  He was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit and
received 4 units of packed red blood cells and was on
Vasopressin for one day.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Type 2 diabetes.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  PMR.
5.  Prostate cancer in [**2164**] status post radiation therapy.
6.  ETOH abuse distant.
7.  Anemia iron deficient.
8.  Gout.
9.  Nephrolithiasis with acute renal failure.
10.  Chronic indwelling Foley secondary to the prostate
cancer.

ALLERGIES:  He is intolerant to ace inhibitors, which causes
a cough.

MEDICATIONS ON [**10-30**] VIA PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN:
1.  Lopressor 100 b.i.d.
2.  Thiazide 50 b.i.d.
3.  Diovan 320 q.d.
4.  Aspirin.
5.  B-12.
6.  Iron sulfate.

At the [**Hospital6 1708**] on the discharge summary
he was also noted to take Allopurinol 300 q.d., Colchicine .6
q.d., NPH 50 units in the morning and 7 units in the evening,
insulin sliding scale, Lisinopril 5 q.d., Toprol XL 100 q.d.,
Zocor 20 q day.  Prednisone taper, which was off.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT [**Hospital6 **] AS PER THE CHART:
Temperature 97.7.  Heart rate 86.  Blood pressure 81/44
increased to 104/52 with 4 lites of intravenous fluid,
breathing at 22, 100% on room air.  He is in no acute
distress.  He is pale, cachectic.  Pupils are equal, round,
and reactive to light and accommodation.  Extraocular
movements intact.  Mouth was without lesions.  He had distant
heart sounds, regular rate and rhythm.  1 out of 2 systolic
murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla.  Regular rate and
rhythm.  Distant heart sounds.  Clear to auscultation
bilaterally.  No rales, wheezes or rhonchi.  Abdomen soft,
nondistended.  Erythematous skin in his penis with the Foley
in place draining clear yellow urine with clot.  He had no
clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  2+ dorsalis pedis pulses
bilaterally.  Skin he had large complex nevi on the left
cheek.  Neurological cranial nerves II through XII were
intact.  His speech was slow, somewhat slurred and
cephalopathic like.  5 out of 5 lower extremity and upper
extremity strength with 5- out of 5 on the right upper
extremity.

LABORATORIES ON [**Hospital6 **]:  White blood cell count 23.2.
Hematocrit 28.7 and went down to 21.5 with 4 liters of
intravenous fluid.  Platelets 333, MCV 89, 133/44, 95/16,
122/5.6, glucose 179, anion gap 22, ALT 10, AST 25, alkaline
phosphatase 90, lipase 40, amylase 44, total bilirubin .4,
albumin 2.7.  Calcium 8.9, magnesium 2.1, phosphorus 8.3, INR
2.4, PTT 36.7.  Arterial blood gas done in the Emergency
Department 7.35/22/122, lactate 3.5.  He had a urinalysis
with brown cloudy urine with 50, moderate leuks, positive
nitrate, protein 100, many bacteria and this ended up growing
out VRE.  The patient was treated with Linezolid for a full
course for this VRE.  The patient had a head CT without
contrast, which showed no mass effect or hemorrhage in acute
setting.  It did show subacute risks of chronic infarcts.  CT
of the abdomen and pelvis showed atelectasis and dependent
lung zone, gallbladder was distended, bilateral
hydronephrosis and hydroureter, bilateral fat stranding
surrounding the kidneys, marked bladder wall thickening with
possible diverticula.  Three large stones were seen in the
urinary bladder 1.5 by 1.2 cm.  The sigmoid colon directly
abutted the thickened urinary bladder wall.  The follow up
that was recommended was a CT cystogram or fluoroscopic
examination for possible rectovesicular fistula.  Chest x-ray
was negative for pneumonia or congestive heart failure.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient grew out VRE in his urine and
was treated with VRE sepsis with intravenous Linezolid,
completed a full course.  His hospital course was also
complicated by a right femoral deep venous thrombosis, which
showed a small PE on CT on [**12-7**] right femoral deep
venous thrombosis and there was also trabeculations in the
bladder and hydronephrosis suggesting chronic bladder
obstruction.  There is also an anterior superior
diverticulum, which could represent a remnant or intact
fistula.  There is no definite evidence of fistula on this
examination and no abdominal obstruction or abdominal abscess
on that CT on the 10th of the abdomen.  Also on the 10th the
patient had a CT of the chest, which showed a PE involving a
subsegmental branch in the right lower lobe, septal
thickening and bilateral pleural effusions consistent with
heart failure, nodular densities within the lungs, which may
represent granulomatous disease.  Repeat CT of the chest is
recommended at a later date and nonspecific prominent
mediastinal lymphadenopathy.  The patient's course also in
the MICU complicated by non ST elevation myocardial
infarction with peak CK of 285, peak CK/MB of ______, peak
troponin of .24.

The patient was intubated in the Intensive Care Unit and was
diuresed for volume overload and then subsequently extubated.
His initial acute renal failure improved with resolution of
the obstruction with the Foley catheter.  He was treated for
adrenal insufficiency with stress dosed steroids as well as
receiving the 4 units of packed red blood cells.  The patient
left the CICU, but was readmitted back to the Intensive Care
Unit on the 26th secondary to pulmonary edema.  He was placed
on BiPAP and nitro drip and was diuresed.  The patient had a
repeat echocardiogram on the 26th, which showed an EF of 30%,
which is down from the one on the 9th, which showed an EF of
60%, although that initial study on the 9th was suboptimal.
The repeat on the 26 showed again he had 30%, left
ventricular cavity size was normal, systolic function was
depressed.  He had 2+ mitral regurgitation, 1+ tricuspid
regurgitation.  No pericardial effusion, but poor
echocardiogram, windows and tachycardia complicated the
imaging.  After being stabilized in the CICU the patient was
transferred back out to the floor on the 29th.

This is a 76 year-old male with a long and complicated
hospital stay characterized by VRE or sepsis, deep venous
thrombosis, PE, gastrointestinal bleeding, hematuria, acute
renal failure secondary to obstruction, congestive heart
failure secondary to flash pulmonary edema most likely in the
setting of ischemia.  The patient had a non ST elevation
myocardial infarction with possible ischemic cardiomyopathy,
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.  He also developed
thrombocytopenia during his hospital course with a nadir of
49 and adrenal insufficiency.

VRE/urosepsis:  The patient received a ten day course of
Linezolid and had a repeat culture on the [**12-26**],
which again grew out VRE, but then had a follow up on the
2nd, which did not grow out VRE and had no bacteria on the
urinalysis.  The patient has a chronic indwelling Foley
c