Admission Date:  [**2122-1-20**]     Discharge Date:  [**2122-1-26**]


Service:  Neurology

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This was a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old woman who
presented on [**2122-1-20**], with a left middle cerebral
artery stroke.  She had apparently been well until about
8 a.m. on the day of admission but at 8:20 was found leaning
to the left side of a chair with right gaze deviation.  She
was brought to the Emergency Department within one hour and
noted to be somnolent but arousable, agitated, with fluent
speech, and following simple commands.  She had a left
hemiplegia with forced conjugate eye deviation to the right.
Head CT showed an old thalamic lacunar, but magnetic
resonance imaging confirmed the presence of an almost
complete left territory stroke with some sparing of the
vasoganglia in the left temporal lobe.

Because of the rapid speed with which she was brought to the
Emergency Room, she was given intravenous t-PA  and admitted
to the Intensive Care Unit.  Overnight, she became a little
more somnolent, but a repeat head CT did not demonstrate any
new hemorrhage.  She was transferred to the Neurology floor
on [**2122-1-21**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  (Past medical history was significant
for)
1.  Diabetes mellitus.
2.  Hypertension.
3.  Atrial fibrillation, for which she had been Coumadin but
which had been discontinued because of retinal hemorrhage.
4.  Congestive heart failure.
5.  Prior spinal surgery.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Medications at the time of
transfer included digoxin, Paxil, Mavik, Avandia, Calcitrel,
Celebrex, Duragesic patch, Lasix, and insulin.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:  General medical
examination revealed heart with an irregularly irregular
rhythm.  Blood pressure was 178 to 180/80.  There were no
carotid bruits.  There were some coarse crackles at the left
lung base.  The abdomen was soft and nontender.  On
neurologic examination her eyes were closed, did not open to
voice or noxious stimulation.  There was no verbal output or
ability to follow commands.  The pupils were symmetric and
reactive.  The was conjugate eye deviation to the right, and
the eyes could not be moved to the left with oculocephalic
reflex.  There was flattening of the left nasolabial fold and
decreased tone in the left eyelid.  The left arm and leg were
flexed with nonvolitional movement.  There was some minimal
withdraw of the left arm and legs from noxious stimulation.
The right arm and leg moved spontaneously.  The left plantar
responsive extensor on the right was flexor.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was taken to the general
Neurology floor for observation.  After an extensive
discussion with the family, it was decided that in addition
to the do not resuscitate/do not intubate status which she
had had in the unit that given her extreme lack of
improvement with t-PA, and the fact that she had multiple
medical problems due to her advanced age, that she would be
changed to basically a comfort measures only status.

We continued to give her intravenous fluids as necessary,
continued the medications she was on currently, and gave her
Lasix for diuresis when her respiratory rate would increase
and her lungs would sound more congested.

Over the next couple of days she did seem to improve a little
bit.  She became more arousable and was able to mumble some
simple words and talk with her family at that point in time.
Because of the improvement, she was taken off comfort
measures only status.  However, the wishes of the family were
that if there was a intercurrent infection or other severe
complications from which she would be unable to recover that
this would be treated expectantly and there would not be
major intervention undertaken.

Within a few days she had returned basically to her baseline
of poor responsiveness, and her examination was basically the
same as was described above.  A chest x-ray was obtained
after her respiratory rate remained elevated for 24 hours in
the range of 40 breaths to 60 breaths per minute, and the
picture no longer seemed consistent with congestive heart
failure, but instead there were some patchy infiltrates of
the left lung consistent with early pneumonia versus
atelectasis.  This was felt to most likely be due to
aspiration as she had had a poor level of arousal for several
days.

At the request of the family, and after a lengthy discussion
with the neurology team, the family, and Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] (neurology
attending) it was decided that it would be most appropriate
for her to be returned to [**Location **] measures only status.  She
appeared to be suffering from air hunger at that point in
time, and so she was given morphine to decrease her
discomfort, and this did slow her respiratory rate, and she
appeared more comfortable.  She continued to deteriorate,
required increasing doses of morphine and was placed on a
morphine drip.

She continued to deteriorate and passed away on the evening
of [**2122-1-26**].



                          [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 1941**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 37533**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 109304**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2122-1-27**]  11:04
T:  [**2122-1-28**]  13:30
JOB#:  [**Job Number 24067**]
