Admission Date:  [**2188-10-6**]       Discharge Date:  [**2188-10-21**]

Date of Birth:   [**2125-4-29**]       Sex:  M

Service:  [**Hospital1 **]

This report will cover the patient's stay through [**2188-10-20**].


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 63 year old male with
a history of hypertension and colon cancer status post
hemicolectomy who is status post a nine foot fall from the
cab of his truck on [**2188-10-2**].  The patient was reportedly
down for about two hours before help arrived and has had
changes in mental status since his fall.  He was originally
seen at the [**Hospital 1558**] Hospital where he was
admitted and found to have a left scalp abrasion that was
sutured, a left clavicle fracture, left rib fractures and a
head CT scan that did not show any evidence of intracranial
hemorrhage.  His next CT scan was also negative for fracture.
The pain was controlled there with percocet and he was
cleared by Physical Therapy for discharge home with a
creatinine of 2.4 at discharge.  At home, however, he was
unable to carry out his activities of daily living, became
short of breath and was brought to an outside hospital
Emergency Room where his CK was noted to be 2456 and he was
noted to have a troponin T of 2.4, creatinine of 3.5, and had
an O2 saturation of only 81% on five liters nasal cannula.

An echocardiogram was carried out which showed an ejection
fraction of 40 to 45% and an arterial blood gas at the
outside hospital showed a pH of 7.32, with pCO2 of 48 and a
pO2 of 50.  A chest CT scan demonstrated right upper lobe and
right lower lobe consolidation consistent with
bronchopulmonary pneumonia thought to be secondary to
aspiration pneumonia.  No pneumothorax was seen.  Again, a
head CT scan was negative.  Given the patient's white blood
cell count elevation, infiltrate and hypoxia, he was given
one gram of ceftriaxone, aspirin for positive cardiac enzymes
and morphine sulfate for pain and was transferred to [**Hospital1 1444**] for further care.

On admission to the [**Hospital1 69**], the
patient was alert and intermittently oriented.  The patient
received in the Emergency Department aspirin, Flagyl and
further morphine sulfate for pain.  The patient was noted to
have unequal blood pressures in his arms and a transthoracic
echocardiogram was carried out to rule out dissection.

The transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated no evidence of
aortic or thoracic dissection and showed mile regional left
ventricular systolic dysfunction with posterior and apical
hypokinesis.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension times three years.
2.  Colon cancer status post hemicolectomy in [**2175**].
3.  Prostate cancer status post prostatectomy.
4.  Remote history of Hepatitis B approximately 25 years ago.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Accupril 40 mg q. day.

ALLERGIES:   No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone; he is separated
from his wife.  [**Name (NI) **] has two supportive daughters.  [**Name (NI) **] has
smoked approximately two to three packs per day times 50
years.  Has occasional ethanol.  Denies any intravenous drug
use.  He is a trucker and was independent before his fall.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission, vital signs with
temperature of 98.0 F.; blood pressure 122/65; pulse 102;
respiratory rate 20; O2 saturation 84% on room air and
increased to 97 to 100% on a nonrebreather.  In general, the
patient was found lying in bed guarding his left side in mild
distress.  HEENT:  Pupils equally round and reactive to
light.  Extraocular muscles are intact.  Oropharynx is clear.
The patient wears dentures.  Neck with no lymphadenopathy.
Chest with diffuse rales and rhonchi on the right; clearer on
the left but dullness is present at the left base.
Ecchymoses are present over the left anterior chest wall and
he is tender to palpation on the left side of his chest.
Abdomen soft, nontender, slightly distended, positive bowel
sounds.  Midline well healed scar.  Extremities with no
edema, clubbing or cyanosis.  Two plus dorsalis pedis and
radial pulses bilaterally.  Neurological examination:  The
patient is awake, oriented to person, occasionally to place,
occasionally to time.  Cranial nerves II through XII are
intact. Strength is five plus in all regions.

LABORATORY:  On admission, white blood cell count 22.1,
hematocrit 40.5, platelets 298.  Sodium 138, potassium 5.2,
chloride 103, bicarbonate 24, BUN 41, creatinine 3.4 and
glucose is 117.  CK is 2427, with an MB of 133 and a troponin
T of 3.41.

EKG demonstrates normal sinus rhythm with normal axis and
intervals and chamber size.  There are no ST or T wave
changes.

Chest x-ray demonstrates minimally displaced rib fractures
within the fifth, sixth and seventh left ribs posteriorly as
well as a depressed fracture of the left clavicle which is
displaced inferiorly by the width of the bone.  There is no
pneumothorax.  Mild congestive heart failure is evidenced by
vascular engorgement.  Lungs are otherwise clear.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   The patient was initially admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit.  The patient was begun on
antibiotics for presumed aspiration pneumonia and was placed
on aspirin, beta blockers, given the elevated cardiac enzymes
on admission.  The patient's O2 saturations initially
stabilized on therapy for presumed aspiration pneumonia and
the patient was transferred to the Floor.

However, on the day of transfer, the patient had a further
episode of hypoxia and hypotension with a drop in his
systolic blood pressure to the 80s.  The patient was bolused
with a total of two liters of normal saline with improvement
of his systolic blood pressure to 100 to 105 and the patient
was transferred back to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for
further management.

On readmission to the Medical Intensive Care Unit, he had an
O2 saturation of 80% on six liters via nasal cannula.  He was
transferred to a 50% face mask where his arterial blood gas
was found to be 7.34/44/55.  The patient demonstrated
increasing agitation and required 50 mg of Haldol for
sedation.

HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1.  PULMONARY:  The patient's hypoxia was most likely
secondary to aspiration pneumonia as well as fluid overload.
He was diuresed with intravenous Lasix with improvement of
his respiration.  He was continued on a 14 day course of
Levofloxacin and Flagyl for presumed aspiration pneumonia.
The patient's respirations further improved with chest PT and
he was transitioned back to nasal cannula and finally room
air.  The patient was able to maintain adequate room air O2
saturations.

2.  CARDIAC:  The patient was noted to have nonspecific
inferior ST depressions with T wave inversions, that were 1
mm in V4 through V6 in the setting of sinus tachycardia.  On
another occasion, the patient was noted to have T wave
inversions in III and AVF with 1/[**Street Address(2) 1766**] depressions in V4
and V5.  On a further occasion, the patient was noted again
in the setting of sinus tachycardia to have [**Street Address(2) 1766**]
depressions in V4 through V6.

The patient was monitored on Telemetry and was noted to
undergo atrial fibrillation at a rate of 140 on the [**10-10**] with V4 through V6 ST depressions of 1 mm.  Telemetry
demonstrated further intermittent episodes of atrial
fibrillation with rates up to 160 and a possible ten beat run
of Ventricular tachycardia.  Transesophageal echocardiogram
demonstrated trace mitral regurgitation, trace tricuspid
regurgitation, mildly depressed ejection fraction with
posterior / apical hypokinesis and no evidence of dissection.
Furthermore, the transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated
left ventricular hypertrophy with mild global hypokinesis.

The patient's CK was 2427 on admission and peaked at 2551 on
the [**10-8**], after which point it trended downward to
575 on the [**10-13**].  His CK MB was 133 on admission
and declined consistently throughout his hospitalization.
His CK MB was 5 on the [**10-13**].

His troponin T was 3.41 on admission and increased to a
maximum of 5.22 on the [**10-12**].  His elevated cardiac
enzymes were thought to be primarily due to renal failure in
the setting of rhabdomyolysis as well as deman