Admission Date:  [**2189-12-16**]     Discharge Date:  [**2189-12-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2142-8-18**]     Sex:  M

Service:  [**Company 191**]

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 47 year old
male with a history of HIV (CD4 count was 393; viral load,
undetectable on [**10-3**]).  He presented to his Primary Care
Physician's office with a two to three day history of
nonproductive cough, chills and disorientation.  The patient
was seen in the Clinic on [**2189-12-14**], initially and
treated with Biaxin for a pneumonia.  The patient did not
improve on Biaxin.  The patient reports a nonproductive
cough, subjective fevers and shortness of breath.  The
patient denies hemoptysis, nausea, vomiting and abdominal
pain, diarrhea, headache or neck stiffness.  He reports no
photophobia or visual changes.

In the Emergency Department, the patient had an oxygen
saturation of 80 percent on room air which improved to 94
percent on 100 percent nonrebreather at a rate of 20.  An
arterial blood gases on the 100 percent rebreather was
7.28/60/102 and the chest x-ray revealed right sided
opacities in the right upper, right middle and right lower
lungs.  The patient was hemodynamically stable.  The patient
did not tolerate a trial of BiPAP in the Emergency
Department.  The patient was given Vancomycin, Ceftriaxone,
Levofloxacin, nebulizer treatments x 3 and 3 liters normal
saline.  The patient was admitted to the MICU for further
monitoring.

An echocardiogram in the Emergency Department was obtained
for increased jugular venous pressure which was negative for
any pericardial effusion.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  HIV diagnosed in [**2183**].
2.  Hepatitis C, status post 48 weeks of Interferon
treatment.
3.  Hepatitis B.
4.  Exposure to tuberculosis.
5.  Depression.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient reports a history of intravenous
drug use and is currently on Methadone maintenance.  The
patient has not used intravenous drugs for greater than ten
years.  The patient denies any other drug use.  The patient
also has a history of incarceration.  The patient is
unmarried with no children.  The patient reports a one to two
pack per day smoking history.  The patient currently lives
with his mother.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Methadone 20 mg p.o. q day.
2.  Klonopin one tab p.o. q d.
3.  Combivir one tab p.o. b.i.d.
4.  Crixivan one tab p.o. b.i.d.
5.  Biaxin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.

ALLERGIES:  There are no known drug allergies.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination on admission:
Temperature, 98; blood pressure, 117/69; heart rate, 88;
respiratory rate, 18; oxygen saturation, 99 percent on 100
percent nonrebreather, 94 percent on 50 percent.  In general,
the patient was in moderate respiratory distress, cachectic.
Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  Pupils were equally
reactive to light with scleral icterus.  Neck was positive
for shotty cervical lymphadenopathy and a jugular venous
pulse of 11 cm.  Neck was noted to be supple.  Lungs revealed
coarse breath sounds bilaterally with poor air movement,
prolonged I:E ratio.  There are no wheezes, no dullness to
percussion.  Cardiac exam was notable for tachycardia.  There
were no murmurs.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended
with bowel sounds.  Extremities, no clubbing, cyanosis or
edema.  Neurological examination, the patient was alert and
oriented x 3.  Cranial nerves II through XII are intact.
Five out of five motor strength with deep tendon reflexes +2
in all four extremities.  The sensation was intact.

LABORATORY:  Laboratory data on admission:  White count was
10.8.  Hematocrit, 33.5; platelets, 130; MCV, 122.
Differential is 84 percent neutrophils with 11 percent bands,
4 percent lymphocytes and 1 percent monos.  The chem 7 was
all within normal limits.  Of note, the creatinine was 1.2.
Liver enzymes on admission were notable for an AST of 148;
ALT, 54; alk phos, 168; amylase, 31; total bili, 4; lipase,
7; LDH, 435; albumin 2.7.  An arterial blood gas on admission
is noted in the HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS.  A urinalysis was
negative.

A chest x-ray revealed dense consolidation of the right
upper, middle and lower lobes with air bronchograms.  An
echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 60% without
pericardial effusion.

Serum toxicology was negative.  Urine toxicology was positive
for benzodiazepines, Methadone and opiates.

The patient is a 47 year old male with HIV, hepatitis C,
hepatitis B and history of tuberculosis exposure,
incarceration, who presented with cough, shortness of breath,
chills, fevers and increased white count with bandemia.  The
patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit for further
monitoring of his respiratory status.

HOSPITAL COURSE:
1.  Pneumonia - The patient was initially on Levofloxacin and
Ceftriaxone for the purpose of community acquired pneumonia.
On hospital day #2, the patient was also started on
Vancomycin given a gram stain sputum positive for Methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus.  Subsequently, Levofloxacin
and Ceftriaxone were discontinued.  Urinary Legionella
antigen was negative.  The patient was also ruled out for
tuberculosis with acid fast bacilli negative x 3.  Induced
sputum for PCP was also negative.

At the time of discharge, the patient remains on day #9 of
#14 of Vancomycin therapy.

The patient's oxygenation status remained stable on the night
of admission.  On hospital day #2, the patient was
transferred to the Floor where he continued to require oxygen
supplementation via nasal cannula.  The patient maintained
saturations greater than 94% throughout the admission,
however on hospital day #7 the patient had an episode of
acute desaturation with a decrease in O2 saturation to 68% on
room air.  The patient was given nebulizer treatments and
pulmonary toilet with expiration of thick secretions and
improvement in saturations to 94% on a 70% mask.  However the
patient throughout the morning continued to remain lethargic
and tachypneic and increased respiratory rate at 24.  He was
placed on 100 percent nonrebreather and a blood gas at this
time revealed a pH of 7.24/CO2 95%/O2 139.  It was thought at
this time that the patient was experiencing acute respiratory
distress secondary to narcotics, specifically his 90 mg dose
of Methadone.  The patient was given a 0.4 mg dose of Narcan
and the patient was noted to be more arousable.

A repeat gas was notable for a pH of 7.4/61/79 on six liters.
However, throughout the morning, the patient intermittently
was found to be lethargic and required three more doses of
Narcan.  After the fourth total dose of the morning, the
patient continued to have a stable respiratory status with
the last gas revealing 7.44/57/58 on six liters of nasal
cannula.  The patient had no further episodes of desaturation
throughout the remainder of the hospital stay.

Upon discharge, the patient continues to require six liters
of nasal cannula in order to maintaine oxygen saturations
greater than 92%.

2.  Human immunodeficiency:  Initially upon admission the
patient's anti-retroviral of medications were held secondary
to poor p.o. intake.  HAART therapy was resumed on hospital
day #2 as the patient tolerated p.o.'s.  Current regimen was
continued throughout the remainder of the hospital stay.

3.  Increased liver function tests:  Given increased liver
function tests, the patient had a right upper quadrant
ultrasound that showed dilation of both the extra and intra
hepatic ducts.  No stones or sludge.  The impression was that
this may be consistent with HIV cholangiopathy and
recommended further evaluation as needed.  LFTs were followed
for several days after procedure and noticed to be down
trending throughout the remainder of the hospital stay.

4.  Thrombocytopenia:  On the day of admission, the patient's
platelets were noted to be 130,000.  Throughout the hospital
stay, the patient had a decrease of his platelets to a nadir
of 565.  Hospital day #7 showed no evidence of bleeding or
purpura.  Heparin induced thrombocytopenia antibody was sent
and remains pending at this time.  All Heparin flushes and
subcutaneous Heparin were discontinued at this time.  The
patient had an increase in platelet levels throughout the
rem