Admission Date: [**2133-2-27**]        Discharge Date: [**2133-3-16**]

Date of Birth:  [**2065-6-10**]        Sex:  M

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Carotid stenosis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This patient is well known to
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **]. He underwent abdominal aortic aneurysm repair
[**2132-1-15**] endovascular repair for a 5.7-cm abdominal
aortic aneurysm. His postoperative course was complicated by
congestive heart failure and a right groin infection. He
denies any claudication since his repair. He is seen in
followup because of his carotid disease. He has known
asymptomatic carotid disease, 60-69% on the left and 40-59%
on the right. Patient now is admitted for elective carotid
endarterectomy.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Included Coumadin 7.5 alternating
with 5 mg; last dose was [**2-23**], Lasix 80 mg q.a.m. and 40
q.p.m., Toprol 200 mg daily, digoxin 0.5 daily, moexipril 7.5
mg daily, colchicine 0.6 mg daily.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Is significant for smoking. He denies
alcohol use.

ILLNESSES:  Include congestive heart failure with ejection
fraction of 55%, chronic atrial fibrillation, history of
hypertension, history of COPD, history of
hypercholesterolemia, history of gout.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Endovascular AAA repair and a type-II
endovascular leak repair.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Patient was admitted to the preoperative
holding area. He underwent a left carotid endarterectomy on
[**2133-2-27**]. He tolerated the procedure well. He was
transferred to the PACU in stable condition. Extubated and
neurologically intact. The patient developed at 4:15 p.m.
respiratory distress. Attempted intubation was unsuccessful.
Patient went into PEA arrest. ACLS protocol was followed.
Patient was successfully intubated and transferred to the
SICU for continued monitoring and care.

It was noted on transfer to the SICU, the patient had unequal
pupils, and a neurology consult was placed. A MRI was
obtained along with a carotid ultrasound. CT of the head was
obtained with contrast. The preliminary report was no acute
hemorrhage. Neurology felt the patient would require a MRI of
the head with multiple areas of restricted diffusion in the
anterior cerebral artery and middle cerebral artery on study.
That was most consistent with embolic phenomena. Source for
embolization needed to be followed up. IV Heparinization
could not be given because of patient's history of GI
bleeding.

Patient continued to be followed by the stroke service.
Recommendations were that we should obtain a MRA of the neck
to assess for evidence of reocclusion.  Patient remained in
the SICU intubated. Pulmonary consult was placed. Patient
failed to wean, and they felt this was first of all COPD with
acute respiratory failure, questionable left lower lobe
aspiration pneumonia and a new CVA. Recommended to continue
pressure support. Hold off on aggressive weaning until
patient has improved clinically both from sputum and chest x-
ray and physical exam. Continued on levofloxacin and Flagyl
for presumed aspiration pneumonia. Start bronchodilators,
Atrovent and albuterol nebulizers q.4-6h., Solu-Medrol 40 mg
IV q.12h. for a few days, then can be converted to inhaling
Flovent. Continue diuresis and continue to monitor.

Patient was placed on triple antibiotics of vancomycin and
levofloxacin. He developed a T-max of 103 on postoperative
day 3. They felt this was related to his pneumonia. On
postoperative day 4, a post-pyloric tube was placed for
enteral feeding. He has been on a regular insulin-sliding
scale. Ultrasound of the chest was obtained for a left
pleural effusion. This was not loculated. Vancomycin and
levofloxacin were continued. The patient had significant
amount of secretions, which inhibited extubation and weaning.

Patient underwent bronchoscopy on [**2133-3-4**] secondary to
failure to wean from ventilator. Airways were without lesions
or bleeding. There were copious thick, mucoid secretions
right bronchotracheal tree greater than left. Patient
remained intubated.

By postoperative day 4, the patient continued still to have a
temperature of 101.9 to 101.3. His tube feeds were at goal,
and he remained on the vent. By postoperative day 6, the
patient's temperature curve had improved to 99.8. His
clinical exam was improved. His white count was improved.

On postoperative day 7, the patient's levofloxacin was
discontinued and was begun on Zosyn. His vancomycin was
continued. Still remained intubated with a T-max of 101.2.
Patient was successfully weaned and extubated on
postoperative day 9, that was [**2133-3-7**]. Mental status
was much improved. Tube feeds were continued. POs were held.
Ambulation to chair was begun.

Postoperative day 10, it was noted the patient had some
inflammatory response of the left 5th finger, which was
consistent with gout. Colchicine was reinstituted along with
Indocin with improvement in his inflammatory response.
Initial evaluation by physical therapy was on postoperative
day 10, [**2133-3-9**]. Patient would require rehab prior to
discharge to home. Antibiotics were discontinued. Tube feeds
were continued and gentle diuresis was continued for a 0.5
liter to a liter of fluid. White count was 18.3, hematocrit
27.7.

Fluconazole was added to the patient's antibiotic regimen of
vancomycin and Zosyn on [**2133-3-10**] for persistent sputums
with yeast. Patient was seen by speech and swallow. The
initial evaluation could not be done because the patient was
not awake enough to follow commands. They did feel the
patient might be aspirating and aspiration precautions were
required.

Patient continued to be seen by physical therapy, and they
continued with aggressive pulmonary therapy. The patient was
re-evaluated on [**2133-3-12**] by speech and swallow, who
felt that the patient had questionable signs and symptoms of
aspiration. Was list at the bedside. A video swallow was
recommended. The patient should remain NPO with his tube
feeds, to continue until the swallow was completed.
Infectious disease was requested to see the patient, and
again the recommendations regarding current antibiotic
treatment and length of therapy.

Recommendations were that the right basilar effusions should
be evaluated by CT with drainage if indicated and fluid sent
for culture. Continue meropenem until chest CT is obtained.
Patient also recommended stop vancomycin and fluconazole.
Recommendations of a right thoracentesis and culture of the
fluid was discussed with Dr.[**Name (NI) 5695**] service, that they
did not want to do any further invasive procedure on the
patient and will diurese the patient and follow the pleural
effusion. Patient's temperature curve continued to show
improvement with improvement in his white count. Blood
cultures, which were obtained showed no growth.

Patient was begun on meropenum on [**2133-3-12**]. The Zosyn
was discontinued. The fluconazole was continued. This was
added to his antibiotic regimen secondary to a new right
lower lobe opacity on chest x-ray. Patient underwent an
oropharyngeal video fluoroscopic swallowing evaluation on
[**2133-3-13**]. There was no aspiration or component of
aspiration noted. Recommendations to advance the diet to thin
liquids, and purees, and medicines in thin liquids. As the
patient's mental status improves and overall strength
increases, the team may wish to advance his diet further.

Patient required transfusion on [**2133-3-13**] for hematocrit
of 26. Patient was transferred to the VICU on [**2133-3-13**].
His white count continued to show improvement, and he
continued to be diuresed. At this point, recommendations were
to continue the meropenum for a total of 7 more days, that
was on [**2133-3-14**].

PICC line was requested on [**2133-3-16**] for continued
antibiotics. Patient continued to show improvement in his
respiratory status. Patient was discharged to rehab in stable
condition.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Acetaminophen liquid 325-650 mg q.4-
6h. p.r.n., moexipril 7.5 mg daily, fluticasone propionate
110 mcg puffs 2 b.i.d., insulin-sliding scale, albuterol
0.083% nebulizers q.6h., ipratropium bromide nebulizers q.6h.
p.r.n., colchicine 0.6 mg daily,