Admission Date:  [**2111-6-21**]       Discharge Date:  [**2111-7-16**]

Date of Birth:                    Sex:  M

Service:  MEDICAL ICU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Respiratory failure.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 72 year-old
male with a history of bronchiectasis in his usual state of
health until five days prior to admission and he noticed
onset of increased shortness of breath with increased sputum
production.  The patient called his pulmonary attending who
advised him to go to the Emergency Room, however, the patient
refused and was treated with a Z-pack.  However, his symptoms
progressed and he was increasingly short of breath to the
point where he fell with no loss of consciousness and did not
hit anything, however, the patient's wife called EMS.  When
EMS arrived they found the patient with an O2 sat of 85% on
room air.  In the Emergency Department the patient was found
to be in respiratory distress with a respiratory rate in the
40s, tachypneic, lethargic, mildly confused, weak and using
accessory muscles for inspiration.  His O2 sat was 90% on
100% nonrebreather.  Chest x-ray revealed a question of right
lower lobe and left lower lobe infiltrates.  This also showed
bilateral pleural effusions.  The patient was intubated due
to respiratory distress and was started on Levaquin 500 mg
intravenous for pneumonia.  After intubation the patient
became hypotensive 80s/40s and was given 2 liters of boluses
without an effect.  He was started on Neo-synephrine for
hypotension and a right eye IJ line central line placement in
the Emergency Room.  Prior to these interventions the patient
was denying chest pain or abdominal pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1.  Chronic bronchitis.  2.
Bronchiectasis intubated seven years ago for a pneumonia.
See Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] pulmonary function tests in [**2109-9-15**],
which showed decreased FVC, decreased FEV1, 58% predicted,
consisted with a restrictive pattern.  3.  Large hiatal
hernia.  4.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease.  5.
Hypothyroidism.  6.  Hypoparathyroidism.  7.  Benign
prostatic hypertrophy status post transurethral resection of
the prostate.

MEDICATIONS:  1.  Levoxyl 100 micrograms po q day.  2.
Hytrin 10 mg po q day.  3.  Proscar 5 mg po q day.  4.
Zithromax.  5.  Atrovent.

ALLERGIES:  None.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with wife.  [**Name (NI) **] was a one and a half
pack per day smoker for thirty years, quit fifteen years ago.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission temperature 101.8.  Heart
rate 81, atrial fibrillation.  Blood pressure 106/58.
Respiratory rate 15.  O2 sat 96%.  Arterial blood gas 7.38,
43, 140.  In general, the patient is an elderly obese man,
intubated.  HEENT pupils are equal, round and reactive to
light.  Neck no JVD.  Pulmonary left lower lobe rhonchi
anteriorly.  Scattered expiratory wheezes.  Heart irregularly
irregular.  Abdomen soft, obese, nontender, nondistended.
Positive bowel sounds.  Extremities nontender, no edema.

LABORATORY:  White blood cell count 3.3, hematocrit 37.3,
sodium 136, potassium 4.2, chloride 102, bicarb 25, BUN 28,
creatinine 1.0, glucose 179.  Calcium, magnesium and phos
10.2, 1.8 and 2.0 respectively.  CK 263, MB 3, troponin less
then 0.3.  The differential on the white blood cell count was
70 neutrophils, 10 bands.  Urinalysis negative.  Blood
cultures were sent, sputum cultures and urine cultures were
also sent.  Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with
a rate of 120s.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Therefore the patient was admitted
with chronic bronchitis and bronchiectasis with likely
pneumonia and sepsis.  He was intubated.  On the day of
admission the patient was started Levaquin and Ceftazidime.
He was intubated and sedated and sent to the Intensive Care
Unit.  In terms of his cardiac function his CK was elevated,
but the thought that there was increased demand on the heart,
so we cycled the CKs with a low suspicion of heart disease.
However, he was tachycardic and in atrial fibrillation,
question of new onset.  We could not start rate control with
AV nodal block [**Doctor Last Name 360**] due to the hypotension, therefore we
continued to follow the patient on telemetry in the unit.

In terms of his bilateral pleural effusions that were seen on
chest x-ray, it was felt that there may be secondary to an
element of congestive heart failure, although there is no
history of heart failure.  The patient was hypotensive and
intravascularly volume depleted secondary to infection and
given the septic condition required aggressive hydration with
boluses.  Therefore we continued to use normal saline for
boluses and use Levophed with a goal of MAP greater then 60.
In terms of his renal function he was prerenal given a BUN
and creatinine ratio greater then 20, so the goal was to
obtain a urine output greater then 30 cc an hour.  He was
hyperkalemic and hypophosphatemic, which was consistent with
a hyperparathyroid picture and we continued to fluid replete
and follow his electrolytes for this.  The patient had
documentation of being a full code upon arrival to the
Intensive Care Unit.

On hospital day number two he had a total of 5 liters of
normal saline with Levophed added for pressure support.
Temperature spike was up to 101.3, so blood cultures were
sent.  His examination remained unchanged and the rest of the
cultures were still pending.  We changed his antibiotics from
Levaquin and Ceftazidime to Vancomycin.  We had to change his
vent settings quite a bit due to the increased oxygen need.
On hospital day number three EP was asked to see the patient
due to atrial fibrillation that had now slowed down to a rate
of 52.  It was felt that the patient did not need a temporary
pacemaker due to the transient state of this bradycardia,
however, if it continued they would likely try Atropine.  On
hospital day number three Xigris was started for septic
shock.  An echocardiogram was obtained, which showed an EF of
55% with mild aortic regurgitation, mild tricuspid
regurgitation.  Zol pads were placed on the patient for
bradycardia, but we did not need them at the time and per
cardiologies recommendation we discontinued the Levophed and
changed him to Dobutamine.

On hospital day number four Atropine was given due to
bradycardia in the 30s with good effect and the patient's
urine output remained poor under 30 cc an hour, but responded
to 500 cc boluses at a time.  When the sensitivities returned
the patient was found to be sensitive to Ceftriaxone, so the
antibiotics were changed from Vancomycin to Ceftriaxone.
There were a few occasions where his O2 sats fell into the
80s and the patient was suctioned with copious amounts of
coffee secretions, but responded well to that and O2 sats
remained in the high 90s after that.  On hospital day number
eight the decision was made to start the patient on heparin
for anticoagulation given new onset of atrial fibrillation.
The patient was persistently having fevers.  His white count
was steadily increasing from 3.3 up to 8, however, it was
still considered to be in significant central [**Doctor Last Name **] was
changed over the wire due to a question of increasing white
blood cells.  A chest CT was obtained and it showed bibasilar
dense opacities consistent with aspiration, small bilateral
pleural effusions.  The sedation was weaned off and the
patient's vital signs remained stable.  His white count on
hospital day number ten was decreasing to 5.2.  The thought
was that his persistent elevated temperatures may have been
due to drug fever, so the antibiotic choice was changed to
Levofloxacin.  Four days after starting the heparin we noted
that the patient had hematuria with clots in the Foley so the
heparin was discontinued.  His hematocrit was found to be
31.5.

On hospital day number eleven the patient had a temperature
spike again up to 101.6 and was cultured, but was continued
on Levaquin.  However, the concern was for gram negative rods
growing in the sputum culture, so the concern was for
Pseudomonas and Zosyn was started.  After no further bleeding
was noted the decision was made to restart the heparin.  This
was consistently a problem though with hematur