Unit No:  [**Numeric Identifier 110396**]
Admission Date: [**2116-7-12**]        Discharge Date: [**2116-7-15**]

Date of Birth:  [**2066-10-13**]        Sex:  Female

Service:  Medical ICU


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 49-year-old woman with
a history of multiple medical problems including
panhypopituitarism, obstructive sleep apnea, multiple cardiac
valvular problems, and an ASD with a right-to-left shunt, who
presented to the emergency department with lethargy and
increased dependent edema.

The patient complained of increasing abdominal girth, as well
as increasing lower extremity edema that had been progressing
for several days to approximately one week. She denied any
chest pain or cough. She did have some increased work of
breathing.

The patient stated that she had been compliant with her
medications and has had no dietary indiscretions to explain
her increasing fluid gain.

In the emergency department, her initial vital signs were
notable for blood pressures in the high 90s systolic, heart
rate in the range of 35-50, and saturations of approximately
92% on room air. She was given dexamethasone, and the MICU
was consulted.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Down syndrome, obstructive sleep apnea
on BIPAP, ASD, COPD, right heart failure, diabetes,
hypertension, history of hypopituitarism, history of diabetes
insipidus.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Albuterol, levothyroxine,
Dulcolax, calcium carbonate, Protonix, prednisone 5/day,
Lisinopril, atenolol, DDAVP, Lasix.

ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a heavy smoker and lives with
her daughter and two grandchildren.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs: Initial set of vital
signs in the emergency department showed a temperature of
96.4, blood pressure 116/53, heart rate 38-53, oxygen
saturation 86% on 5 L nasal cannula. General: The patient was
lethargic but could be aroused and would respond
appropriately to questions. She was oriented times three.
HEENT: Her pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light.
She had dry mucous membranes noted. Neck: Supple but elevated
jugular venous pressure was noted to the level of the jaw.
Lung: Scattered expiratory wheezes bilaterally. Heart:
Regular and bradycardiac. Abdomen: Soft and distended abdomen
with normal bowel sounds. Extremities: The patient had 2+
edema on the bilateral lower extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  Complete blood count was performed which
showed a white count of 5.6, hematocrit 35, platelet count
126; chemistries revealed a sodium of 137, hemolyzed
potassium of 8.6, chloride 95, CO2 35, BUN 29, creatinine
3.4, glucose 75; repeat potassium was performed which was
4.4; her coags showed a PT of 14.5, PTT 35.9, INR 1.4; ABG
was performed which showed a pH of 7.26, CO2 79, O2 55,
baseline pCO2s from past gases were in the 60-70s, baseline
pO2 in the range of 50-70; lactate was 1.0.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the medical
intensive care unit for her lethargy and volume overload and
hypoxia. The bradycardia she exhibited in the hospital was
possibly secondary to beta-blockade, although other
etiologies were entertained including hypothyroidism. Her
beta-blocker was held on arrival, and she received some doses
of atropine and glucagon.

The elevated creatinine noted on admission was presumed to be
secondary to poor forward flow. Urine electrolytes and
osmolalities were checked in order to establish whether this
was prerenal, renal, or post renal source of failure. Urinary
sodium was noted to be 409, urinary creatinine 55, urinary
sodium 41, potassium 63, an urine osmolalities of 402.
Urinanalysis showed no evidence of infection, and urine
culture taken on the 13th showed no growth.

The patient was noted to be volume overloaded on admission,
and there was a goal initially in the unit to gently diurese
and fluid balance while monitoring kidney function to ensure
that diuresis did not damage renal function. It was noted in
the unit that the patient put out a large volume of urine, as
much as 2 L over a 24-hour period, between the 14th and 15th.
There was some concern that this was due to insufficient of
DDAVP, and some fluid was given to her to compensate for
this.

Her respiratory status improved while she was in the unit
with some supplemental oxygen and strict compliance with her
BIPAP. She was maintained on stress-dose steroids and
continued on her DDAVP and Levoxyl supplementation.

Over the course of her unit stay, her fluid balance improved,
her creatinine returned to 1.1, her respiratory status and
mental status normalized. Once the renal function had
returned to baseline, the patient was restarted on her ACE
inhibitor.

By the 16th, the patient had returned to her baseline
functioning status, and it was planned to discharge her to
the floor, but since she was feeling so well, she was sent
home with VNA support.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Good.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  To home with services.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1. Hypercarbia.
2. Bradycardia.
3. Volume overload.
4. Acute renal failure.


DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Levothyroxine 75 mcg 1 tab/day,
Pantoprazole 40 mg 1 tab/day, albuterol MDI, Ipratropium MDI,
prednisone 10 mg 1 tab/day, Lisinopril 5 mg 1 tab/day, DDAVP
0.2 mg 1 tab twice a day, Lasix 20 mg 2 tab once a day.



                        [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Name8 (MD) **], MD

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 56466**]
MEDQUIST36
D:  [**2117-7-7**] 13:27:15
T:  [**2117-7-7**] 14:35:30
Job#:  [**Job Number 110397**]
