Admission Date:  [**2140-3-3**]     Discharge Date:  [**2140-3-9**]


Service:

HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is an
82-year-old woman with a past medical history of
cardiomyopathy, nonischemic, CHF, A fib, admitted to the CCU
from [**Hospital Unit Name 196**] for V tach at approximately 180 beats per minute at
roughly 1:30 a.m. on [**2140-3-4**].  The patient began at
midnight.  She received a bolus of 150 mg of Amiodarone
beginning at 12:20 a.m. and then had an Amiodarone drip
placed in the unit.  Her systolic blood pressure dropped to
75.  She complained of being sweaty, shortness of breath.  A
fluid bolus was given.  She was 94% on 2 liters nasal
cannula.  The patient converted from V tach to a paced rhythm
at roughly 90 beats per minute spontaneously while bearing
down prior to second dose of Amiodarone and prior to paging
Anesthesia for conscious sedation for cardioversion.

Her symptoms resolved which returned to her baseline rhythm.
Initially in the afternoon of [**2140-3-3**], the patient
complained of palpitations.  She called EMS and was found to
be in V tach by the EMS team.  In route to the hospital, her
rhythm remained in V tach despite 13 shocks at 100 joules.
The patient converted to sinus rhythm, bundle branch block,
conduction delay.  She was loaded with Amiodarone during the
cardioversion.  She also received 100 mg of lidocaine,
Adenosine 6 mg prior to Amiodarone.

At [**Hospital1 18**], she went to the EP Laboratory where V tach was
noninducible and she was found to have an infra HIS block.  A
DDD pacer was placed.  The patient complained of shoulder
pain secondary to shocks.  In the CCU she was stable and
loaded with Amiodarone on 1 mg per minute IV.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Nonischemic cardiomyopathy.
2.  CHF.
3.  A fib.
4.  Hypercholesterolemia.
5.  Squamous cell skin cancer, status post removal on left
arm.

AT-HOME MEDICATIONS:
1.  Digoxin 0.125 mg q.d.
2.  Lasix by weight, baseline dry weight; she normally takes
Lasix when her weight is greater than 145 pounds.
Cardiologist is Dr. [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **].

ALLERGIES:  She has an intolerance to statin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Sixty-year pack history of one alcohol drink
per week and no drugs.  She is a widow.  She has one son who
is involved in her care.  We discussed her case with her PCP
who said that the patient was unable to tolerate an ACE
inhibitor and had trouble tolerating beta blockers in the
past.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:  Vital signs:  Status post
the episode of VT on [**2140-3-4**], in the morning, roughly at
2:00 a.m., the patient's vital signs revealed a pulse of 91,
blood pressure 120/53, 98% on 2 liters nasal cannula,
breathing at 15-22, not in any acute distress.  General:  The
patient was elderly, younger appearing than stated age.
HEENT:  EOMI.  PERRLA.  Anicteric.  JVD approximately 9 cm.
Heart:  Regular rate and rhythm.  There was a III/VI
holosystolic murmur at the apex.  Lateral PMI.  Crackles at
the left base laterally and anteriorly.  Abdomen: Soft, no
distention, no tenderness, normoactive bowel sounds.
Extremities:  There was [**12-20**] dorsalis pedis pulses
bilaterally.  No clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  Neurologic:
A&O  times three.  Cranial nerves II through XII intact.
Pleasant.  Right groin bruit, slightly ecchymotic.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient is an 82-year-old woman with a
history of nonischemic cardiomyopathy, CHF, who presents to
the CCU status post an episode of V tach, status post
multiple shocks that were unable to resolve the V tach,
status post EP study without inducibility of the rhythm,
although the patient was found to have an infra HIS block
resulting in a DDD pacer being placed.  The patient received
boluses of Amiodarone 150 mg times one and was loaded on IV
Amiodarone for the V tach.

1.  CARDIOLOGY:  Rhythm/V tach:  After the load of 1 mg per
minute and vagal bang down broke into normal sinus rhythm.
The Amiodarone was initially decreased to 0.5 mg per minute.
She was converted to Amiodarone 400 mg p.o. q.d. and the
Amiodarone was discontinued after the patient had been loaded
sufficiently.  The patient was started on low-dose of beta
blocker 25 p.o. b.i.d.  The patient had a run of sustained V
tach on [**2140-3-5**] at approximately 4:00 p.m. and was
given IV 2.5 Lopressor and the rhythm spontaneously reverted
back to normal sinus rhythm.  She had a 50 plus beat run of V
tach at 8:55 a.m. on [**2140-3-6**], again nonsymptomatic and
then the ectopy tended to decrease, having three to four
beats of NSVT on [**2140-3-7**] and four beats on [**2140-3-8**].  The Lopressor was converted to Toprol XL 50 mg q.d. at
discharge.

Of note, the patient received Amiodarone 400 mg b.i.d. for
one week and then was transitioned to 400 q.d.

Hemodynamics:  On the morning of [**2140-3-4**], when she
first presented to the CCU, roughly 45 minutes after going
into normal sinus rhythm, the patient's blood pressure
dropped into the 70s.  She was bolused IV fluid with her
blood pressure going up to the 90s and then would drop again
to the 70s when her IV fluid was not running.  She received
approximately 600-700 cc with her blood pressure going to
90-100, heart rate in the 70s, pulsus paradoxus at the time
was 5 mmHg.  Repeat hematocrit showed 31.2. It had been 37
the day before.  Therefore, she received 1 liter of IV fluid.
Repeat hematocrit was 31.8, stable.

The Cardiology fellow was called.  He did an echocardiogram
at the bedside which showed none/trace pericardial effusion,
global LVHK.  The left ventricle was very enlarged, more so
than the right ventricle.  No RA collapse.  The blood
pressure, status post 1 liter of IV fluid, was stabilized in
the 110s/50s with heart rate in the 70s and afebrile at 98.2
and breathing at 14-21, 97% on 2 liters nasal cannula.

2.  CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE:  The patient has the
cardiomyopathy considered to be nonischemic.  She had a
repeat echocardiogram done on a nonemergent setting with an
ejection fraction of 20%.  TR gradient of approximately 30
mmHg.  The left atrium was mildly dilated.  The right atrium
was normal in size.  Left ventricular wall thickness was
normal.  Left ventricular cavity was mildly dilated with
severe global LVHK.  No resting LV outflow tract obstruction.
No mass or thrombi seen in the left ventricle.  Right
ventricular wall thickness was normal.  Right ventricular
chamber size was normal.  Right ventricular systolic function
appeared depressed.  Aortic root was normal in diameter.
There were focal calcifications in the aortic root.  The
aortic valve was mildly thickened and not stenotic.  Mitral
valve leaflets were mildly thickened.  No MVP.  Mild annular
calcification.  There was mild thickening of the mitral valve
chordae.  There was a systolic anterior motion on mitral
valve leaflets.  There was no significant mitral stenosis,
moderate to severe 3+ MR was seen.  Tricuspid valves were
mildly thickened.  Mild tricuspid regurgitation was seen, +1.
 Mild pulmonary systolic hypertension.

The patient's weight rose to 147.  Normally, her Lasix was
initiated with a weight greater than 145.  She received
actually 80 mg p.r.n.  We started her on 20 mg p.o. q.d. dose
for more even diuresis and fluid shifts.  She had very good
urine output and negative 1.6 liters on the first day of this
regimen.  Her weight went from 147 to 143.  [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 6**] [**Last Name (un) **], Losartan,
was also added for afterload reduction as the patient was
unable to tolerate an ACE inhibitor as an outpatient.  [**Last Name (un) **] 25
q.i.d. was started.

The patient initially had reported some orthopnea and PND
when her weight was higher and dyspnea on mild exertion with
the physical therapist at the scene.  On the date of
discharge on this regimen, she was able to ambulate in the
hallway without any complaints, any shortness of breath, and
her PND was reduced from earlier in the week.  She was placed
on a 2 gram sodium diet.

3.  INFRA-HIS BLOCK:  The patient had a DDD pacer placed as
previously mentioned.  Status post her pacemaker placement,
the patient developed a right groin bruit secondary to a
pseudoaneur