Admission Date:  [**2146-12-12**]     Discharge Date:  [**2146-12-19**]


Service:  A-Cove

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a [**Age over 90 **]-year-old
with a history of aortic stenosis, coronary artery disease,
dementia, and depression who presents with delta multiple
sclerosis.

Per daughter, the patient has been having one to two loose
bowel movements per day times five days, also with worsening
disorientation, agitation, and confusion.  No fevers or
chills.  No nausea or vomiting.  No urinary frequency or
dysuria.  Decreased oral fluids and solids recently.  No
abdominal pain.  No melena.  No bright red blood per rectum.
Stable urinary incontinence.  No cough.  No chest pain.  No
shortness of breath.

In the Emergency Department, vital signs revealed temperature
was 100.1, blood pressure was 150/71, heart rate was 76,
respiratory rate was 18, oxygen saturation was 97% on room
air.  Blood cultures times two were sent.  Given levofloxacin
500 mg p.o. times and one liter of normal saline.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Aortic stenosis.
2.  Coronary artery disease.
3.  Hypertension.
4.  Peripheral vascular disease.
5.  Depression.
6.  Dementia.
7.  Urinary incontinence.

ALLERGIES:  SUCCINYLDICHOLINE.

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Aspirin, Gabitril, isosorbide
dinitrate, K-Dur, Lasix, metoprolol, Pentoxifylline, Remeron,
vitamin E.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  She lives with her daughter.  She has a
24-hour care giver.  No tobacco.  No alcohol.  No illicit
drugs.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Family history was noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON PRESENTATION:   Physical examination
on admission revealed temperature was 99, blood pressure was
143/70, heart rate was 80, oxygen saturation was 93% on room
air.  In general, an elderly female, anxious-appearing, but
in no respiratory distress.  Head, eyes, ears, nose, and
throat examination revealed pupils were equal, round, and
reactive to light and accommodation; 3 mm to 2 mm
bilaterally.  Sclerae were noninjected.  No salivary pooling.
Mucous membranes were moist.  The neck was supple.  No
lymphadenopathy.  Thyroid with left-sided nodule.  Lungs with
poor air movement, clear.  No crackles.  No wheezes.  No
dullness to percussion.  No egophony.  Cardiovascular
examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm.  A [**3-16**]
crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur at the base.  A [**3-16**]
holosystolic murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla.
Abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended.  Normal active
bowel sounds.  No costovertebral angle tenderness.
Extremities revealed no clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.
Neurologically, cranial nerves II through XII were grossly
intact.

PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON PRESENTATION:  Laboratories
revealed white blood cell count was 13.2 and hematocrit was
42.2 (with 64% neutrophils, 26% lymphocytes, 8% monocytes),
and platelets were 293.  Sodium was 140, potassium was 5.3,
chloride was 102, bicarbonate was 25, blood urea nitrogen was
27, creatinine was 1.1, and blood glucose was 100.  INR was
1.

RADIOLOGY/IMAGING:  A chest x-ray revealed left medial
retrocardiac opacity consistent with infiltrate versus
atelectasis, multiple small nodules unchanged since [**2143-11-11**] (likely calcified granuloma).

Head computed tomography revealed chronic microvascular
ischemic changes.  No mass.  No bleed.  No acute pathology.
Upper sclerotic lesions in the vertebrobasilar system.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the A-Cove
Service with delta multiple sclerosis and a urinary tract
infection by urinalysis which showed moderate leukocyte
esterase, positive nitrites, greater than 50 white blood
cells, and many bacteria.

She was started on levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. times one which
was changed to 250 mg p.o. q.d. in the a.m.  Urine culture
grew out pan-sensitive Escherichia coli.  Blood cultures
showed no growth to date.

The patient was doing well until [**2146-12-14**].  At 8 p.m.
on [**2146-12-13**] ins were 1500 outs around 800.  There was
also a question of pneumonia on chest x-ray.  Nurse had a
conversation with the patient around 8 p.m.  Ten minutes
later, the patient was noted gasping for air.  Oxygen
saturation was 83% on room air.  Blood pressure was 200/110.
Pulse was in the 130s.  A code was called.  The patient was
intubated.

In the Medical Intensive Care Unit, the patient's blood
pressure was initially around 150.  The patient was awake and
trying to speak.  Moved all four extremities spontaneously.
Electrocardiogram showed normal axis, T wave inversions in II
and aVF, mild ST depressions in V4 to V6.  A chest x-ray
revealed pulmonary edema.  In the Medical Intensive Care
Unit, the patient was diuresed with Lasix intravenously as
needed for pulmonary edema.

The patient ruled in for a non-ST-elevation myocardial
infarction.  An ACE inhibitor was added.  She has known
3-vessel disease.  Echocardiogram showed septal and apical
hypokinesis.  She was continued on aspirin and started on
atorvastatin.

The patient was noted to have bright red blood per
endotracheal tube.   A bronchoscopy revealed no lesions, and
she had no further bleeding.

The patient had decreased mental status once again.  Her
psychiatric medications were held, and she perked up.

The patient was seen by Cardiology who believed
non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction was most likely due to
demand ischemia in the setting of hypoxia due to respiratory
distress "flash pulmonary edema" secondary to aspiration or
hypertension/demand.  Per many discussions with the family,
Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], and the Cardiology Service, it was decided not
to catheterize unless she had symptoms.

The patient was called out to the A-Cove Service on [**2146-12-15**].

 1.  CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM:  (a) Coronary artery disease:
Non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction.  She was continued on
aspirin and atorvastatin, even with normal lipid profile of
triglycerides of 126, high-density lipoprotein of 46,
low-density lipoprotein of 100.  Nitrates per admission
medications.  She was monitored on telemetry and had no
events.  An additional set of enzymes were checked which
continued to be decrease.  Electrocardiogram was unchanged.
Her metoprolol was increased to 75 mg p.o. b.i.d.  An ACE
inhibitor was started; captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d.  The
patient was discharged on metoprolol 75 mg p.o. b.i.d. and
lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. q.d.

(b)  Pump:  Echocardiogram revealed moderately decreased left
ventricular ejection fraction of 35% to 40%.  It also
revealed moderate aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation.
Lasix was held due to over diuresis with aortic stenosis and
restarted on the day of discharge (on [**2146-12-19**]).

(c)  Rate and rhythm:  Rate and rhythm were stable.

 2.  PULMONARY SYSTEM:  The patient admitted with possible
pneumonia then new onset respiratory distress secondary to
question aspiration.  Oxygen saturations were stable on room
air.

A chest x-ray was repeated again on the floor which revealed
no sign of aspiration pneumonia.  A bronchoscopy revealed no
lesions after one episode of blood per endotracheal tube.

 3.  INFECTIOUS DISEASE:  The patient admitted with a urinary
tract infection.  White blood cell count and fever curve
improved once treated with levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.d.
times seven days.  Blood cultures were no growth to date.

Chest x-rays were performed which revealed no evidence of
aspiration pneumonia, so no further antibiotics were added.

 4.  RENAL SYSTEM:  Stable.

 5.  GASTROINTESTINAL SYSTEM:  Stable.  The patient was
continued on bowel regimen.

 6.  NEUROLOGY/PSYCHIATRY:  Psychiatric medications were
held, and mental status greatly improved.  The patient with a
history of cerebrovascular accident.  She was continued on
Pentoxifylline.  Then on [**2146-12-18**], because of poor
mood and insomnia, she was restarted on Remeron 30 mg p.o.
q.h.s.

 7.  ENDOCRINE SYSTEM:  Stable.

 8.  PROPHYLAXIS:  She was continued on heparin subcutaneous,
Protonix, and bowel regimen.

 9.  FLUIDS/ELECTROLYTES/NUTRITION:  Electrolytes were
repleted as needed for a potassium of greater than 4 and
magnesium of greater than 2.  For her history coronary artery
disease, she was continued on a