Admission Date:  [**2108-8-17**]       Discharge Date:  [**2108-9-10**]


Service:  [**Location (un) 259**]
CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Motor vehicle collision

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS/HOSPITAL COURSE PRIOR TO TRANSFER:
This is a 77-year-old female, a restrained driver in a motor
vehicle collision, hit from behind by a truck.  Denies loss
at the scene, taken to [**Hospital3 1443**] Hospital, where she
desaturated during a CT scan to 60%, requiring intubation.
Films taken there suggestive of an elevated/disrupted left
hemidiaphragm.  The patient was reported a difficult
intubation.  Received Unasyn and tetanus prior to transport.
The patient was transported by [**Location (un) 7622**] to [**Hospital1 346**] and was tachycardic, required 2.5
placed, and bilateral subclavian cordises were placed.
Diagnostic peritoneal lavage was grossly positive.  The
patient was hypoxic in flight, with saturation of about 84%.

The patient was ultimately diagnosed with a left
diaphragmatic rupture, left pneumothorax, bilateral rib
fractures, left II-[**Doctor First Name 81**], right VIII-[**Doctor First Name 81**] bilateral pulmonary
contusions, T7-T8 vertebral fracture.

The patient had bilateral chest tubes placed, and underwent
diaphragmatic repair surgery the day after presentation.
Postoperatively, the patient experienced a few episodes of
atrial fibrillation which were broken with lopressor.  The
patient also ruled out for a myocardial infarction.  Both
chest tubes were removed and, five days after presentation,
the patient required thoracentesis for a large pleural
effusion.  Thirteen days after presentation, the patient
underwent a T5-T12 posterior vertebral fusion without
complication.  Postoperatively, she had a few more episodes
of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response, which
was quickly converted with intravenous Lopressor.  Fifteen
days after initial presentation, the patient was noted to be
short of breath and tachypneic, with oxygen saturations in
the 80s.  A CT angio showed no evidence for pulmonary
embolus, but did show a large left loculated pleural effusion
and a smaller right pleural effusion.

The patient at this time was being treated with levofloxacin
day four for her left lobe pneumonia.  On the following day,
a left posterior chest tube was again placed, with 730 cc of
serosanguinous fluid immediately draining.  After the
drainage, chest x-ray showed reinflation of the left lung,
with improved oxygenation, 97 to 99% on 4 liters nasal
cannula.

The patient was transferred to the Medicine service 17 days
after initial presentation, with stable oxygen saturations of
97 to 99% on 4 liters nasal cannula.  At the time of
transfer, the patient reports slight shortness of breath,
denies dizziness, headache, chest pain, diaphoresis, nausea,
vomiting, fevers, chills and palpitations.  She further
denies, prior to the accident or in the hospital, having
diarrhea, constipation, melena, hematochezia, hematemesis,
hematuria.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypothyroidism, osteoarthritis,
hairline fracture of the right hip, status post bilateral
cataract surgery, congenital lymphedema of both lower
extremities.

MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO HOSPITALIZATION:  The patient will only
report taking thyroid hormone and also states she takes a lot
of vitamins, which she does not name.

MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF TRANSFER:  Regular insulin sliding
scale, acetaminophen 325 to 650 mg by mouth every four to six
hours as needed for pain, albuterol nebulizers every four to
six hours as needed, Atrovent nebulizers every six hours,
Tylenol #3 one to two tablets by mouth every four to six
hours as needed for pain, Colace 100 mg by mouth twice a day,
Dulcolax 10 mg per rectum per day as needed, milk of magnesia
30 cc by mouth every six hours as needed, Senna one tablet by
mouth twice a day as needed, Miconazole powder 2% applied
topically three times a day under the breasts, levofloxacin
500 mg by mouth every 24 hours, thyroid 60 mg by mouth once
daily, heparin 5000 units subcutaneously every eight hours,
metoprolol 25 mg by mouth twice a day, ondansetron 2 mg
intravenously every six hours as needed for nausea and
vomiting.

ALLERGIES:  Unreliable allergy history, but possibly
intravenous contrast dye.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient has two sons and one daughter.
The patient lives alone, and the daughter is her health care
proxy.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  Please see history of present illness.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature 98.9, blood
pressure 130/50, heart rate 74, respiratory rate 30, oxygen
saturation 98% on 4 liters.

General:  Elderly female, in no acute distress, who appears a
little bit older than her stated age.

Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat:  No icterus, no pallor,
mucous membranes moist, no lymphadenopathy, no thyromegaly.

Neurological:  No sensory or motor deficit.  Cranial nerves
II through XII are intact.  Coordination is intact.  Gait not
observed.  Speech is intact.

Cardiovascular:  Regular rate and rhythm, no rubs, gallops or
murmurs.  No jugular venous distention.  Massive bilateral
lower extremity edema secondary to congenital lymphedema.

Pulmonary:  Lungs clear to auscultation, with mild scattered
rales.

Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended, no organomegaly, no
masses.

LABORATORY DATA:  At the time of transfer, sodium 132,
potassium 4.5, chloride 90, bicarbonate 35, BUN 7, creatinine
.3, glucose 155.  White blood cell count 13.4, hemoglobin 11,
hematocrit 33.9, platelets 330, MCV 94.  Calcium 8.3,
phosphorus 2.0, magnesium 1.7.  Urinalysis was negative.

STUDIES:  Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with no acute
ischemic changes.  Ultrasound immediately prior to transfer
showed no evidence for deep venous thrombosis.
Echocardiogram obtained four days after initial presentation
showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 60 to 70%,
with only mild mitral regurgitation and mild dilation of the
left atrium.

CONTINUATION OF HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was called out
to the Medicine floor.  She was placed on telemetry, which
was ultimately discontinued.  The patient had no acute events
on telemetry, and was in normal sinus rhythm the whole time.
The patient's TSH came back mildly elevated at 6, and her
thyroid supplementation was increased.

One morning a few days after transfer to the floor, the
patient complained of acute shortness of breath and chest
pain.  She was found to be in acute pulmonary edema.  She was
treated with lasix and sublingual nitroglycerin as well as
morphine and an aspirin.  Her symptoms resolved, and she
ruled out for a myocardial infarction.  Electrocardiogram was
normal when compared to a prior study, and showed no acute
ischemic changes.

The patient was also found to have a mildly elevated alkaline
phosphatase, which was attributed to her multiple injuries.
The patient was placed on a multivitamin as well as daily
calcium, magnesium and phosphorus supplements.  The patient
was fed a pureed diet, and received physical therapy
evaluation and treatment in-house.  She was put on a bowel
regimen to assist with moving her bowels.  Antibiotics were
discontinued shortly after arriving on the floor.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  The patient is stable for discharge to a
rehabilitation/skilled nursing facility.  She is to follow up
with her surgeons as well as her primary care physician.  [**Name10 (NameIs) **]
is to resume taking her outpatient medication regimen that
she was taking prior to presentation to the hospital.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Left diaphragmatic rupture status post diaphragm repair
2.  Left pneumothorax
3.  Bilateral rib fractures, left II-[**Doctor First Name 81**] and right VIII-[**Doctor First Name 81**]
4.  Bilateral pulmonary contusions
5.  T7 and T8 vertebral fracture status post T5-T12 posterior
vertebral fusion
6.  Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; the patient is to be
discharged wearing [**Initials (NamePattern4) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **] of Hearts monitor
7.  Euthyroidism
8.  Osteoarthritis
9.  Congenital lymphedema

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Levothyroxine 150 mcg by mouth once daily
2.  Percocet 5/325 one to two tablets by mouth every four to
six hours as needed for pain
3.