Admission Date: [**2123-9-21**]        Discharge Date: [**2123-9-29**]

Date of Birth:  [**2052-2-14**]        Sex:  F

Service:  VSU


CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Bilateral lower extremity ulcerations
(right greater than left).

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is a 71-year old female
with known diabetes, congestive heart failure, atrial
fibrillation, peripheral [**Year (4 digits) 1106**] disease who presents for
pre-hydration for an arteriogram of her right lower
extremity. The patient was admitted to the medical service
last month for a UTI and is now symptomatic. She has a right
lower extremity ulcer which occurred after removal of ankle
hardware last month. Currently the patient denies chest pain,
shortness of [**Last Name (LF) 1440**], [**First Name3 (LF) **], abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting,
fevers, chills. The patient has no specific complaints other
than low leg pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Includes type 2 diabetes (insulin
dependent), congestive heart failure (with an ejection
fraction of 50% to 55%), history of chronic atrial
fibrillation (anticoagulated), coronary artery disease,
status post angioplasty in [**2109**], [**2110**] and [**2113**], history of
pulmonary hypertension, history of hyperlipidemia, history of
COPD (with home O2), history of pulmonary embolus, history of
obstructive sleep apnea (on CPAP), history of
depression/anxiety, history of aortic endocarditis (treated),
history of chronic anemia.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  Includes thyroidectomy, laparoscopic
cholecystectomy, a right thoracotomy decortication, and a
right hip and ankle open reduction/internal fixation.

ALLERGIES:  PENICILLIN, TEGRETOL, BEEF AND PORK INSULIN,
_______________ (manifestations unknown).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:  Include Lasix 40 mg/80 mg daily,
lisinopril 5 mg daily, Celexa 60 mg daily, Synthroid 200 mcg
daily, multivitamin tablet, Zocor 20 mg daily, aspirin 325 mg
daily, Coumadin, Lopressor 25 mg t.i.d., Atrovent 2 puffs
b.i.d., Fentanyl patch, oxycodone, Dilantin, Toprol XL 50
b.i.d., Protonix 40 daily, OxyContin 10 mg daily, Neurontin
600 mg b.i.d. (Monday and Wednesday), Lantus insulin 18 units
daily.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient is a resident of [**Hospital 100**] Rehab.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  VITAL SIGNS: Temperature of 98.7,
pulse of 92, respiratory rate of 18, blood pressure of
110/60, O2 saturation of 95% on room air. GENERAL APPEARANCE:
Anxious elderly female in no acute distress. HEENT: Carotids
are palpable without bruits. LUNGS: Clear with diminished
[**Hospital 1440**] sounds at the bases. HEART: Regular irregular rhythm.
ABDOMINAL EXAM: Benign. PULSE EXAM: Shows palpable
carotid's/radial's bilaterally 2+, femoral's are palpable 1+,
popliteal's are monophasic dopplerable signal bilaterally. On
the left, DP is monophasic and the PT is a triphasic
dopplerable signal. On the right, the DP is triphasic and the
PT is monophasic. EXTREMITIES: Limbs show minimal dry ulcers
on the left with a small anterior leg ulcer at the Achilles
heel. All bases are clean and pink. There is no drainage.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the [**Hospital 1106**]
service. IV hydration was begun in anticipation for an
arteriogram with a creatinine of 1.5. Admitting labs included
a white count of 8.4, hematocrit of 34.0, BUN of 15,
creatinine of 1.5. An EKG showed atrial fibrillation. No Q
waves. Nonspecific ST changes. A chest x-ray revealed poor
pulmonary inspiratory effort. No CHF.

On hospital day 1, the patient had no events overnight. The
patient's anticipated angio was deferred secondary to
scheduling problems. She was afebrile. This was discussed
with the patient, and she was allowed to eat and was prepared
for an arteriogram for [**2123-9-23**]. She was continued on
vancomycin, levofloxacin, and Flagyl.

On [**9-23**], the patient underwent abdominal aortogram with
bilateral runoff and a right above-the-knee amputation. She
required a unit of packed red blood cells intraoperatively.
She was transferred to the PACU in stable condition. The
angio was done from the left common femoral with a 5 sheath,
and she had a dopplerable DP at the end of the procedure.
Immediately postoperatively, she remained hemodynamically
stable. Postoperative hematocrit was 31.2. A chest x-ray was
without pneumothorax. The tip of the Swan-Ganz was in the
SVC. There was some right lower lobe atelectasis versus
edema. Dressings were clean, dry and intact. She had no
hematoma in the groin. She required Neo-Synephrine at 0.3
units/kg/min for systolic blood pressure support. The patient
remained in the PACU overnight.

On postoperative day 1, she did have rapid atrial
fibrillation which resolved. She was weaned off her Neo-
Synephrine. She was begun on a diltiazem drip. Her enzymes
were cycled, which were negative for rule out. Her diet was
advanced as tolerated. She was transferred to the VICU for
continued monitoring and care.

On postoperative day 2, the patient required Haldol for night
confusion with an improvement. She was afebrile. She
continued on the Neo-Synephrine and diltiazem drips. Her rate
was under excellent control with atrial fibrillation of 78.
Blood pressures were 100/94. She was 100% on 3 liters. Blood
gas was 7.43/43/111/29 and 3. Vancomycin, levofloxacin, and
Flagyl were continued. A regular insulin sliding scale was
begun. A multipoultice boot to the left foot. Her IV fluid
rate was decreased, and the patient was transferred to the
VICU for continued monitoring and care. On postoperative day
2, there were no overnight events. Her hematocrit remained
stable at 30.4 with a white count of 13.1; down from 15.0.
Her creatinine improved - was 0.7 - and gases remained
stable.

On postoperative day 3, her diet was advanced as tolerated.
Fluids were hep-locked. On postoperative day 4, the patient
was transferred to the regular nursing floor. She continued
to be afebrile. Her central line was discontinued.

On postoperative day 5, physical therapy was requested to see
the patient in anticipation for discharge planning. Her white
count was 9.9. The patient will require rehab prior to
discharge to nursing facility. Antibiotics were discontinued
on [**2123-9-28**]. Her beta blockade was reinstituted. The
remaining hospital course was unremarkable.

DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:  The patient was discharged to rehab.

CONDITION ON DISCHARGE:  Stable condition; the wounds were
clean, dry and intact.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient is to keep a
multipoultice splint to the left heel for heel protection.
She should not have any stump shrinker's to the amputation
site. The skin clips should remain in place until seen in
followup. The patient's INR's should be monitored; and her
goal INR should be 2.0 to 3.0 and Coumadin dose adjusted
accordingly.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Lisinopril 5 mg daily, levothyroxine
200 mcg daily, citalopram hydrobromide 60 mg daily,
simvastatin 20 mg daily, methylphenidate 10 mg q.a.m. and 5
mg at lunch, aspirin 325 mg daily, fluticasone actuation
aerosol 110 mcg 2 puffs b.i.d., Fentanyl patch 75 mcg per
hour q.72h., miconazole nitrate powder to affected area,
Lasix 80 mg daily, albuterol/ipratropium bromide 103/18 mcg
actuation aerosol 1 to 2 puffs q.6h., topiramate 15 mg
b.i.d., Protonix 40 mg daily, oxycodone 10 mg sustained
release q.12h., gabapentin 600 mg b.i.d. and 900 mg at
[**Year (4 digits) 21013**], insulin glargine 18 units at [**Year (4 digits) 21013**], diltiazem 30
mg q.i.d., Nystatin swish-and-swallow q.i.d., lorazepam 0.5
mg q.8h. p.r.n., oxycodone 5 to 10 mg q.4h. p.r.n. (for
breakthrough pain), metoprolol tartrate 25 mg t.i.d.,
Coumadin 2.5 mg daily at [**Year (4 digits) 21013**].

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Bilateral lower extremity ulcerations; right worse than
   left.
2. Postoperative blood loss anemia; transfused/corrected.
3. History of coronary artery disease.
4. Congestive heart failure (ejection fraction of 55%).
5. Status post angioplasty to coronary arteries in [**2109**], [**2110**]
   and [**2113**].
6. History of atrial fibrillation; anticoagulated.
7. Pulmonary hypertension.
8. Postoperative hypotension; corrected.
9. Hypercholesterolemia (on statin).
10.      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 