Admission Date: [**2165-5-4**]        Discharge Date: [**2165-5-8**]

Date of Birth:  [**2097-7-25**]        Sex:

Service:


HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 67-year-old
male with past medical history significant for atrial
fibrillation, eosinophilic gastritis, coronary artery
disease, and CHF who presented with bright red blood per
rectum.  Patient with eosinophilic gastritis reports history
of bright red blood per rectum in the past.  His most recent
episode began approximately one month prior to admission when
he noted nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.  He had
approximately two to three episodes per day.  His symptoms
have been ongoing for greater than one year in association
with his eosinophilic pneumonia.  He describes his diarrhea
episodes as typically watery and brown colored.  He has had
intermittent bright red blood per rectum in the past.  His
most recent episode, he noted two to three days of bright red
blood.  He called his primary care physician, [**Name10 (NameIs) 1023**] suggested
that he come into the hospital.  The patient denied any
complaints of dizziness, lightheadedness, chest pain,
palpitations, shortness of breath, or other complaints.  Upon
arrival in the ED, however, he was noted to have systolic
blood pressure in the 80s.  His hematocrit was noted to be 26
down from 36.  Prophylaxis could not be obtained.  Central
line was attempted bilateral ________ unsuccessful, right
subclavian attempt was also unsuccessful.  Finally, a right
IJ central line was placed; and at this time, his INR
returned, which was noted to be elevated at 31.
Subsequently, he developed a large hematoma in his right
subclavian region.  Following central access, he was given IV
fluid with improvement in his systolic blood pressure to the
90s.  A decision was made to admit him to the MICU Service
for further workup and treatment.

On arrival in the MICU, the patient denied any acute
complaints.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  No fever, chills, nausea, vomiting,
abdominal pain, or shortness of breath.  Positive chronic
pain in the lower chest region ongoing for greater than one
year.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Diabetes mellitus, type II, on
insulin.

Diabetic neuropathy.

Diabetic retinopathy.

Diabetic nephropathy.

Chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine of 1.3
to 1.8.

Coronary artery disease, status post multiple stents.

Ischemic cardiomyopathy with EF of 35 to 40 percent.

Mild mitral regurgitation.

History of NSVT, status post ICD placement.

Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation on amiodarone and Coumadin.

Hypertension.

Hypercholesterolemia.

Zoster with chronic pain in T8 dermatomal distribution.

Chronic bowel and bladder incontinence.

Status post right carotid endarterectomy in [**6-13**].

Left arm amputation, status post MVA.

Eosinophilic gastritis with peripheral eosinophilia.

Erectile dysfunction.

Diplopia.

Iron deficiency anemia.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin.
2. Amiodarone.
3. Lisinopril.
4. Carvedilol.
5. Iron.
6. Lomotil.
7. Coumadin.
8. NPH insulin with sliding scale insulin at meals.
9. Neurontin.
10.      Zocor.
11.      Prednisone.
12.      Oxycodone.
13.      Methadone.
14.      Lasix.
15.      Trazodone.
16.      Colace.


ALLERGIES:  No known drug allergies.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Noncontributory.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient lives alone in subsidized
housing for veterans.  He is widowed with his wife recently
dying from colon cancer in [**2163**].  He has one adopted son, who
in the past threatened his wife with a knife and has a
restraining order in place.  He has smoked tobacco since age
13, approximately 1 to 2 packs per day.  No alcohol or IV
drug use.  Health care proxy is [**Name (NI) **] [**Name (NI) 14442**], a close family
friend.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Vital signs:  Temperature 96.2
degrees, heart rate 60, blood pressure 92/63, respirations
18, saturating 99 percent on room air.  General:  An elderly
male in no acute distress, mentating well.  HEENT:  Pale
conjunctivae.  Blood soaked gauze over right IJ central line
site.  JVP not visible.  Mucous membranes slightly dry.
Lungs:  Clear to auscultation and equal bilaterally.  Chest:
A 10 x 15 cm hematoma extending from the manubrium to the
right distal edge of the clavicle.  Cardiovascular:  Distant
heart sounds, regular rate, S1 and S2; no murmurs, rubs, or
gallops.  Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, and nondistended.  No
hepatomegaly.  Extremities:  Cool with palpable femoral, DP,
and PT pulses bilaterally.  No femoral bruits.  A 1 cm
hematoma is in the bilateral groins.  Neurological:  Alert
and oriented x 3.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 13.1, hematocrit 25.9,
platelets 183, sodium 133, potassium 4.4, chloride 100,
bicarbonate 19, BUN 120, creatinine 4.9, glucose 92, PTT of
73.7, and INR of 31.1.

RADIOGRAPHIC STUDIES:  EKG:  Normal sinus rhythm at 60 beats
per minute.  No acute ST or T wave changes.  Intraventricular
conduction delay unchanged from previous EKGs.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  GI bleed:  The patient presents with bright
red blood per rectum x 2 days.  This occurred in the setting
of his supratherapeutic INR with INR noted to be 31 on
admission.  Patient with known eosinophilic gastritis with a
recent exacerbation and had been on steroids for
approximately one day.  His GI bleed was thought to be most
likely due to his combination of gastritis and steroids in
the setting of supratherapeutic INR.  A NG lavage was
obtained, which was negative.  Upon arrival in the emergency
department, he had a rectal exam, which showed dark blood.
He then underwent anoscopy, which showed blood in addition to
some nonbleeding internal hemorrhoids.  No active source of
bleeding was localized.  Gastroenterology consult was
obtained.  The patient went for a colonoscopy; and
colonoscopy did show some internal hemorrhoids, which were
not bleeding, but otherwise normal with visualization to his
cecum.  He also underwent an EGD, which was negative for any
active bleed.  Erosions were seen diffusely throughout the
stomach.  The proximal bulb did show mild erythema consistent
with duodenitis.  However, no fresh or old blood was
visualized.  EGD was visualized as normal to the second part
of the duodenum.  He then underwent an upper GI with small
bowel follow-through.  This study was also normal with no
clear bleeding source localized.  Given the patient's lack of
any further bleeding with normalization of his INR and no
clear bleeding source localized with multiple GI studies,
decision was made to send the patient home with close
monitoring as an outpatient.  His aspirin and steroids were
held given concerns that this could have contributed.  He is
to have close follow-up with Gastroenterology for further
monitoring.  Throughout the hospital stay, the patient did
receive several units of blood, which he tolerated well, and
his hematocrit was stable with this.

Eosinophilic gastritis:  Patient with history of eosinophilic
gastritis with difficult to control symptoms over the
previous year.  He had recently been started on steroids
given his acute exacerbation of nausea, vomiting, and
diarrhea for the previous month.  Upon admission, steroids
were held given concern for his GI bleed and he did have mild
diarrhea.  During his EGD, a biopsy of his stomach was
obtained, which did return as consistent with eosinophilic
gastritis as per his previous diagnosis.  The patient is to
follow up with GI as an outpatient with possible
consideration of the initiation of steroids for symptomatic
relief should his symptoms otherwise remain stable.

Coagulopathy:  Patient admitted with supratherapeutic INR of
31.  He reports he had been taking his home dose of Coumadin
as directed and denies any medication or dietary
noncompliance.  His Coumadin was withheld, and his INR was
reversed with multiple units of fresh frozen plasma.  He also
received vitamin K.  His INR did normalize following this.
Given the lack of any clear source of GI bleeding, Coumadin
was held with a decision for him to follow up with his
outpatient PCP to discuss restarting Coumadin.

Hematoma:  Patient with multiple central line placement
attempts in the setting of an elevated INR.  Felt multiple
hematomas including small groi