Admission Date:  [**2108-3-23**]       Discharge Date:  [**2108-4-7**]


Service:  Cardiothoracic

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Transfer from an outside hospital for
workup and treatment of endocarditis.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  An 87 year old man with a
history of cardiomyopathy and hypertension along with sick
sinus syndrome status post pacemaker placement who was
transferred from [**Hospital6 38016**] for management
of questionable endocarditis.  The patient presented to the
[**Hospital 28159**] Hospital on [**3-21**] with complaints of 1?????? weeks
of persistent intermittent fevers, arthralgias, chills,
anorexia, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.  The patient was
admitted to the hospital where blood culture two out of two
came back with Methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus
as did a urine culture.  The patient subsequently had a
culture on [**3-22**] which at the time of admission was growing
gram positive cocci in clusters consistent with
Staphylococcus.  The patient was initially treated with
Vancomycin but was switched to Oxacillin once the
sensitivities were returned.  He had a transesophageal
echocardiogram which revealed tricuspid vegetation and was
diagnosed with endocarditis and transferred for further
management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  1. Cardiomyopathy; 2.  Sick sinus
syndrome, status post permanent pacer; 3.  Hypertension; 4.
Diverticulosis; 5.  Benign prostatic hypertrophy status post
transurethral resection of prostate; 6. Mild peripheral
neuropathy; 7.  Status post appendectomy; 8.  Small abdominal
aortic aneurysm; 9.  Anxiety disorder.

ALLERGIES:  The patient has no known drug allergies.

MEDICATIONS:  On transfer from [**Hospital 28159**] Hospital
1.  Amiodarone 200 mg q.d.
2.  Flonase
3.  Prevacid 30 mg q.d.
4.  Multivitamin
5.  Oxacillin 2 gm intravenously q. 6 hours
6.  Tylenol 650 q. 4 hours prn
7.  Phenergan
8.  Ativan
9.  Proscar 5 mg q.d.
10. Prozac 20 mg q.d.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  He lives with his wife in [**Name (NI) 38017**]
[**State 350**].  Son is an Infectious Disease specialist.
remote tobacco use and rare alcohol use.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Physical examination at the time of
admission revealed vital signs with heartrate of 76, blood
pressure 110/60, respiratory rate 24, and oxygen saturations
95% on 2 liters.  Temperature was 101.3.  General, alert, ill
appearing gentleman.  Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat,
pupils were equally round and reactive to light.  Extraocular
motions intact.  Mucous membranes were dry.  Oropharynx
benign.  Neck is supple with no lymphadenopathy.
Jugulovenous pressure is at 7 cm.  Cardiovascular:  Regular
rate and rhythm, II/VI systolic ejection murmur at the right
sternal border with radiation to the neck.  Respiratory is
clear to auscultation bilaterally.  Abdomen is soft,
nontender, nondistended with positive bowel sounds.
Extremities warm, no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Small
petechiae, left third digit and left great toe.
Neurological, alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves
2 through 12 grossly intact, nonfocal examination.

LABORATORY DATA:  Laboratory data at the time of admission
revealed white count 15.8, hematocrit 36.8, platelets 31,000.
INR 1.2, PTT 36.7.  Sodium 140, potassium 4.1, chloride 108,
carbon dioxide 22, BUN 43, creatinine 1.0, glucose 81.  Blood
from outside hospital on [**3-21**], 2 of 2 bottles of
Methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus, on [**3-22**], 2
of 2 bottles with gram positive cocci in clusters resembling
Staphylococcus as a preliminary report, [**3-23**], 4 of 4
bottles pending, urine from [**3-21**], Methicillin-susceptible
Staphylococcus aureus.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Following admission the patient was seen by
Infectious Disease as well as Electrophysiology.  Repeat
transesophageal echocardiogram was done which showed a 5.5 cm
mass on the pacer wire, likely not suitable for a
transcutaneous extraction following identification of this
mass Cardiothoracic Surgery was consulted and the patient was
evaluated for open removal of his permanent pacing wires.  He
was accepted by Cardiothoracic Surgery and on [**3-28**], he
was brought to the Operating Room at which time he underwent
pacer wire extraction via sternotomy.  Please see the
operation report for full details.  The patient tolerated the
surgery well and was transferred from the Operating Room to
the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit.  He did well in the
immediate postoperative period.  His anesthesia was reversed.
He was weaned from the ventilator and successfully extubated.
He remained in the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit
throughout postoperative day #1 as he required Neosynephrine
infusion to maintain an adequate blood pressure.  Throughout
postoperative day #1 and in the morning of postoperative day
#2 the patient was weaned from his Neosynephrine infusion and
on the morning of postoperative day #2 he was transferred
from the Cardiothoracic Intensive Care Unit to Far 6 for
continuing postoperative care and cardiac rehabilitation. On
postoperative day #3 the patient was noted to have a period
of confusion and incoherent speech, however, his neurological
examination was nonfocal in nature.  Given the nature of the
patient's recently cardiac surgery as well as his vegetation
that was on his pacing wires the patient was brought for a
head computerized axial tomography scan to rule out an
embolic event.  The computerized axial tomography scan was
negative and the confusion was felt to be related to hospital
psychosis versus infection.  On chest x-ray the patient had a
right upper lobe infiltrate and therefore his intravenous
antibiotic coverage was expanded to include not only
Oxacillin but also Ceftazidime and Flagyl.  On postoperative
day #4 the patient's neurological status was noted to be
improved, however, at that time a new truncal rash was noted.
The rash was felt to be a result of his intravenous
antibiotic.  Because the patient had Oxacillin sensitive
Staphylococcus infection his Oxacillin was continued and his
Ceftazidime and Flagyl were discontinued.  The patient's rash
continued to be a problem extending not only to his trunk but
also to his upper extremities.  Dermatology was consulted and
they agreed that it was most likely a drug rash due to the
Oxacillin and therefore his Oxacillin was changed to
Vancomycin.  For the next several days the patient continued
to show slow progress and he remained afebrile and
hemodynamically stable and remained on his intravenous
Vancomycin and on postoperative day #8 a PICC line was placed
for longterm intravenous antibiotic use.  On postoperative
day #9 it was felt that the patient was stable and ready for
transfer to rehabilitation for continuing postoperative care
and rehabilitation.  At that time he was screened by several
rehabilitation centers.  It was expected that he will be
ready and accepted for discharge within the next several
days.  At this time the patient's condition is stable.  His
physical examination as of this time is vital signs with
temperature 98, heartrate 74 sinus rhythm, blood pressure
107/60, respiratory rate 18, and oxygen saturations 90%, on
40% shuttle.  Weight preoperatively is 82.3 kg.  At discharge
is 79.9 kg.

Laboratory data revealed white count 14.7, hematocrit 25.8,
platelets 222, PT 13.3, PTT 34.1, INR 1.2.  Sodium 135,
potassium 4.6, chloride 104, carbon dioxide 24, BUN 24,
creatinine 1.5, glucose 136.

Physical examination is alert and oriented times three.
Moves all extremities, follows all commands.  He can be
confused at times but easily reoriented. Respiratory, coarse
rhonchi throughout.  Breathsounds diminished bilaterally at
the bases, left greater than right. Strong productive cough.
Cardiovascular, regular rate and rhythm, S1 and S2.  Sternum
is stable.  Incision with steri-strips, open to air, clean
and dry.  Abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended with
normoactive bowel sounds.  Extremities are warm and well
perfused with 1 to 2+ pedal edema.  He has a generalized rash
to the trunk, arms and legs that is resolving.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Status post pacemaker lead extraction
2.  Cardiomyopathy
3.  Sick sinus syndrome
4.  Hypertension
5.  Diverticulosis
6.  Benign pro