Admission Date:  [**2133-11-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2133-11-16**]

Date of Birth:   [**2057-9-6**]     Sex:  M

Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT: Chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a
seventy-six-year-old male with a history of four vessel
disease, status post coronary artery bypass graft in [**2127**] who
presented to [**Hospital3 1443**] Hospital on the morning of
admission with a one week history of substernal chest pain.
The patient has had episodes on the morning of admission for
less then two minutes at rest. The patient arrived at the
Emergency Department in atrial fibrillation with one episode
of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. The patient
responded to intravenous Amiodarone and intravenous
Nitroglycerin, intravenous Lopressor and was pain free with
the addition of a bolus of Integrilin along with aspirin and
Plavix and Heparin. One week prior to admission, the patient
had chest pain which he described as someone sticking needles
in the center of his chest. The patient had accompanying
diaphoresis which lasted a couple of hours and went away with
lying down. The next day, the patient had diffuse abdominal
pain which lasted a few days and was constant in nature. The
patient described as a thorn and he also had nausea with one
to two episodes of vomiting. There was no blood in his vomit.
He thinks it may have looked bilious but he can not remember.
The patient went to the hospital after this vomiting episode
and was diagnosed with pneumonia by chest x-ray. The patient
was given antibiotics and noticed that his urine "came out in
drops". The patient also had chest pain with this difficulty
urinating and vomiting. The patient went back to [**Hospital3 1442**] Hospital and had difficulty breathing while lying
flat. The patient felt slightly short of breath otherwise,
but not noticeable. The patient normally sleeps with one
pillow at home. The patient has no history of paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea. The patient has nocturia. He can walk a
mile without shortness of breath. The patient has no edema.
Otherwise, he had no chest pain or nausea or vomiting at the
moment. [**Name2 (NI) **] did have shortness of breath with lying down. The
patient did have cough and he did have belly pain which
improved with placement of a Foley catheter.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history was otherwise,
significant for four vessel coronary artery bypass graft in
[**2127-6-14**] with left internal mammary bypassing the left
anterior descending artery and three reversed autogenous
saphenous vein grafts to bypass the ramus intermedius, the
obtuse marginal branch and the circumflex and the posterior
descending artery. The patient would have a catheterization
twenty-four hours after the substernal chest pain but also
had sepsis so catheterization at that time was delayed and
the patient had a coronary artery bypass graft instead. The
patient also has a history of diabetes, no history of
hypertension. The patient has a history of duodenal ulcer,
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and increased cholesterol,
which was checked six months ago and was okay. The patient's
cholesterol is controlled with diet.

MEDICATIONS: Medications on admission include, Captopril
12.5 mg by mouth three times a day, Digoxin 0.125 mg by mouth
every a.m. and Ecotrin. The patient was also on a Z-pack
prior to admission.

ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY: No ethanol, smoking. The patient had smoked
thirty to forty years ago, approximately one-half pack per
day.

FAMILY HISTORY: Family history was noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Physical examination on admission
included vital signs, 95.0 F, 64, 112/62, 32 and 90% on six
liters. The patient was switched to a non-rebreather mask.
Otherwise, general appearance: well appearing thin male,
appeared anxious. Head, eyes, ears, nose and throat
examination: pupils were equal and reactive to light and
accommodation, moist mucous membranes, fissured tongue. Neck:
no jugular venous distension lying down, no carotid bruits.
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs or
gallops, question of diastolic murmur in aortic area. Unable
to assess well at this time, secondary to non-rebreather
mask. Pulmonary: crackles anteriorly two-thirds up
bilaterally. Good breath sounds. Abdomen: positive bowel
sounds, soft, tender in the suprapubic area, improving after
insertion of a Foley catheter. No hepatomegaly, no
splenomegaly, nondistended. Extremities: no cyanosis,
clubbing or edema, weak pulses bilaterally, Dopplerable,
right extremity had a venous sheath, which was left in place,
no hematoma or ecchymosis. Skin: pale and intact.

LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory studies on admission included a
white blood cell count 10.1, hematocrit 44.1, platelet count
295,000.

Electrolytes included sodium 137, potassium 4.1, chloride
100, bicarbonate 21, blood, urea and nitrogen 16, creatinine
1.3 and glucose 115.

Digoxin was less then 0.2.

International normalized ratio was 1.05.

Cardiac enzymes included creatine kinase 153, MB 20, Troponin
11.3.

Arterial blood gas showed pH 7.39/32/68.

Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 71 beats per
minute with ST waves elevations in I and arteriovenous
fistula, no left ventricular hypertrophy, Q waves in [**Last Name (LF) 1105**], [**First Name3 (LF) **]
elevations in V1 and V2, V3 and a possible right bundle
branch block with a QRS of 122. This is changed from previous
electrocardiograms.

Cardiac catheterization was performed, which showed cardiac
output of 3.36 and cardiac index of 1.69, hemodynamic
measurements were significant for elevated wedge of 24. Left
ventriculography showed mitral regurgitation. LEVF percentage
was not performed. Angiography showed a right dominant system
with LMCA 100%, distal left main, LAD patent but small,
diffusely diseased, left circumflex with patent ramus,
severely diseased, distal circumflex RCA with 100% proximal
SVG 1) To the PDA patent but severely diffusely diseased. 2)
Jump graft to ramus and then right PLVBR equal patent, no
significant graft disease, good distal RCA blood flow. LIMA
to the LAD was patent but the distal LAD was small and
appeared diffusely diseased. There was 100% native LM and
RCA, which were severely disease, SVBG, to the PDA patent and
the SVBG to the ramus distal RCA bed patent LIMA but small
diffusely diseased LAD.

HOSPITAL COURSE: Given the above, the patient's issues were
treated by system in the Cardiac CCU.

1) Cardiac. The patient was found to be in congestive heart
failure causing his shortness of breath. This was thought to
be possibly secondary to paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and
infection. Therefore, an echocardiogram was performed. This
echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of less then 25%,
otherwise, the left atrium was mildly dilated, the left
ventricular cavity was also moderately dilated and there was
severe global left ventricular hypokinesis. Overall, left
ventricular systolic function was severely depressed. The
right cavity was moderately dilated and systolic function was
also depressed. The aortic valve leaflets were moderately
thickened with mild 1+ aortic regurgitation, mitral valve
leaflets were mildly thickened with moderate pulmonary artery
systolic hypertension. The patient was also put on Lasix
given in increased amounts at the beginning of his hospital
stay. The patient was continued on Captopril and he continued
on Digoxin. Otherwise, for rhythm, the patient had
ventricular tachycardia at the outside hospital and atrial
fibrillation in the past. Beta blocker was held, given his
recent decompensation. The patient was monitored on telemetry
for ischemia. The patient was continued on aspirin, no stents
were placed. The patient was continued on aspirin and Plavix,
Heparin and had a cardiac catheterization performed.
Otherwise, his lipid panel was rechecked as well as his liver
function tests and the patient was started on Lipitor.

2) Pulmonary. The patient was continued on Lasix. A repeat
chest x-ray was obtained to assess for pneumonia and the
patient was begun on antibiotics.

3) Gastrointestinal. The patient had a history of duodenal
ulcer and now presented