Admission Date:  [**2128-7-11**]       Discharge Date: [**2128-8-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2090-7-13**]       Sex:  F

Service:  INPATIENT MEDICINE

                        ADDENDUM

The patient was transferred to the Medicine Team from the
MICU on [**2128-7-30**].

1.  Respiratory:  While in the MICU, the patient had
difficulty weaning from the ventilator.  She would become
hypoxic and tachypneic when we would attempt to wean her.
Finally the patient received Decadron 4 mg on [**7-29**] for
vocal cord edema, and she was successfully extubated on
[**7-29**].  The patient did not have any signs or symptoms of
respiratory distress once she was extubated.

The patient was initially requiring 2 L oxygen to maintain
oxygen saturation above 95%.  The patient's oxygen
requirements were weaned, and upon discharge, she had an
oxygen saturation of 96% on room air.

2.  Fevers/infectious disease:  The patient was continually
febrile after [**7-26**].  The patient had an abdominal CT on
[**7-28**] looking for any kind of intra-abdominal or
intrapelvic collection or abscess.  The patient had no
abscesses found on that CT.

The patient defervesced on [**7-29**] and remained afebrile
until discharge.  As stated previously, the patient was found
to have MRSA pneumonia.  She completed a 14-day course of
Flagyl and a 14-day course of Vancomycin and a 21-day course
of Levofloxacin.  The patient remained afebrile until
discharge.

3.  Psychiatric:  The patient was initially placed on a 1:1
sitter when she was transferred to the floor.  The patient
was then further evaluated by Psychiatry and was found to be
no longer suicidal.  It was determined that she would not
require a psychiatric hospitalization at this time.

She can go to a rehabilitation facility and follow-up as an
outpatient.  The patient did not exhibit any agitation or
behavioral problems throughout the remainder of the
hospitalization and did not express any suicidal thoughts or
ideation.

4.  Mental status changes:  When the patient was transferred
to the floor, she initially exhibited some slight confusion
and was not oriented to time.  This was probably likely
secondary to a metabolic syndrome from overdose.  She had no
other deficits throughout the hospitalization.

The patient's mental status improved by discharge, and she
was alert and oriented times three.

5.  Nutrition:  The patient was initially placed on tube
feeds through a feeding tube.  She was evaluated by Speech
and Swallow and was placed on a soft solid, thickened liquid
diet secondary to aspiration of thin liquids on [**8-5**].
The NG tube was discontinued once she was taking adequate
p.o. intake.

6.  Physical therapy:  The patient was seen and treated by
Physical Therapy once she was transferred to the floor.  She
will require rehabilitation and physical therapy on a
long-term basis once discharged from the hospital in order to
help her return to her near baseline activity.

The patient was discharged in good condition to a
rehabilitation  facility.,

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
1.  Susac syndrome.
2.  Overdose of Prozac and Verapamil.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  Bisacodyl 10 mg per rectum at night
as needed for constipation, Docusate 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. as
needed for constipation, Verapamil 40 mg p.o. q.8 hours,
please hold for blood pressure less than 80, Aspirin 325 mg
p.o. q.d.

FOLLOW-UP:  The patient is to follow-up with her primary care
physician within one month, her neurologist within one month,
and with Psychiatry for outpatient treatment within one
month.






                         DR.[**Last Name (STitle) 313**],[**First Name3 (LF) 312**] 12-766

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 16735**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2128-8-5**]  13:22
T:  [**2128-8-5**]  13:55
JOB#:  [**Job Number 16736**]
