Admission Date:  [**2119-8-29**]     Discharge Date:  [**2119-9-1**]


Service:

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This is an 84-year-old female
with a history of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia and
coronary artery disease who presents with shortness of breath
on exertion times several days.  The patient had been in her
usual state of health until approximately one week prior to
admission when she noted increased shortness of breath with
exertion.  She had also noted increased dry cough over the
past several weeks that progressed into a productive cough of
yellow sputum over the last week.  She went to see her
primary care doctor, Dr. [**First Name (STitle) 18732**], on [**2119-8-24**].   A chest
x-ray was done which showed pneumonia.  She was prescribed
the azithromycin, amiloride and hydrochlorothiazide as well.
The medications did not improve her shortness of breath and
she called her primary care physician on [**Name9 (PRE) 766**] and was told
to increase her dose of amiloride by half.  On Tuesday
morning, the patient had worsening shortness of breath with
inability to speak and the daughter called 911 at which time
she was brought to the Emergency Department.

In the Emergency Department, patient noted to have a white
count of 24.4 and an arterial blood gas on face mask of
7.00/89/158.  Patient was put on BiPAP and chest x-ray was
checked which showed bilateral pleural effusions, left
greater than the right, with atelectasis at the bases
bilaterally.  She has given a total of 120 mg of Lasix and
did not diurese very well.  She was also given 500 mg
intravenous of Levaquin.  On BiPAP, her blood gas was
7.27/43/388.  Her breathing improved in the Emergency
Department and she was eventually placed on face mask with an
arterial blood gas of 7.34/35/228.  At that time, she was
brought to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for further
management.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  She notes increased lower extremity edema
to the ankles over the last week or two, positive paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea but denies any fevers, chills, abdominal
discomfort, burning on urination, melena or any other
symptoms.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Hypercholesterolemia.
3.  History of atrophy treated with steroids in [**2117**].
4.  Abdominal aortic aneurysm.
5.  Coronary artery disease, status post myocardial
infarction ten years ago.
6.  Cataract surgery of the left eye.

MEDICATIONS:
1.  Amiloride/hydrochlorothiazide [**4-/2068**] q.d.
2.  Norvasc 5 q.d.
3.  Zocor 40 mg q.d.
4.  Ecotrin 81 mg q.d.
5.  Diovan/hydrochlorothiazide 160/125 mg b.i.d.
6.  Nadolol 40 mg q.d.

ALLERGIES:  Patient has a questionable allergy to
Ciprofloxacin.  Is allergic to ampicillin which causes a rash
and azithromycin which causes her nausea.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  Patient lives in an apartment by herself on
the second level above her daughter's apartment.  Patient
smoked one pack per day times 55 years, but quit
approximately ten years ago.  Denies any alcohol use.
Patient is very active and goes up and down stairs without
any problems at home and is fully functional.

FAMILY HISTORY:  Patient has a mother with coronary artery
disease, [**Name (NI) 5895**] disease.  Father passed with cirrhosis
of the liver and a daughter with breast cancer.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  Temperature 97.7.  Heart rate 68.
Blood pressure 990/43.  Respirations of 16.  02 is 99% on
face mask, nonrebreather.  Patient is alert, elderly white
female sitting at edge of bed in no apparent distress.  Head
is normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils were equal, minimally
reactive.  Extraocular movements intact.  Sclera anicteric.
Conjunctivae pale.  Nares patent.  Oropharynx significant for
dry mucous membranes without erythema or exudate.  Neck was
supple with no palpable masses.  Thyroid was normal in size,
jugular venous pressure was 8 cm, no lymphadenopathy
palpated.  Patient had good inspiratory effort with decreased
breath sounds at the bases, left greater with right with mild
crackles at the bases bilaterally, no wheezes, rhonchi or
rales.  Heart was regular rate and rhythm with normal S1, S2
2/6 systolic murmur was heard at the right upper sternal
border.  Point of maximal impulse was slightly displaced
laterally.  Abdomen was soft, nontender, nondistended with
good bowel sounds, no hepatosplenomegaly, no bruits, no
palpable masses.  Extremities:  There was 2+ edema
bilaterally to the ankles with trace edema in the calves, no
cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  Neurological exam:  Patient was
alert and oriented times three.  Neurological exam was
nonfocal.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  Emergency Room course is as stated in the
history of present illness.

SIGNIFICANT LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION:  White blood cell
count 24.2, hematocrit 30.9, a positive urinalysis and a
chest x-ray which showed bilateral pleural effusions, left
greater than right, and bilateral atelectasis with left
ventricular enlargement of the heart.

Patient was initially admitted to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit for a severe pneumonia versus congestive heart failure
versus chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation.
Patient was treated with community acquired pneumonia with
Levaquin.  His sputums were negative at the time of
discharge.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease could not
be ruled out given the underlying pneumonia, but it was felt
that this was unlikely to be an acute exacerbation.  However,
patient was started on prn nebulizer treatments.  Patient's
worsening shortness of breath on exertion was probably
secondary to a congestive heart failure exacerbation
particularly given her decreased breath sounds and crackles
at her bases as well as her bilateral pleural effusions.  She
was given additional Lasix in the Medical Intensive Care Unit
and improved symptomatically.  Chest x-ray was obtained and
the following morning it showed clearing of the fluid.
Patient's creatinine began to increase from her baseline
which is likely secondary to renal failure given her
congestive heart failure exacerbation and acute diuresis.
Patient was placed on Lasix prn and kept even or negative.

Patient was transferred to the Acove Medicine Service on
[**2119-8-30**].  The patient was stable at the time of
discharge and patient was kept on current management of
congestive heart failure versus pneumonia versus chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  Patient continued to
symptomatically improve and at time of discharge, 02
saturation was 100% on room air.  Patient will be discharged
with a couple of medication changes.  The nadolol was
switched to carvedilol 6.25 mg b.i.d., the Diovan/
hydrochlorothiazide was switched to just Diovan 160 mg q.d.
and the amiloride was switched to Lasix 40 mg q.d.  Patient
was also given one week of antibiotic Levaquin 250 q.d. for
treatment of her pneumonia.

DISCHARGE CONDITION:  Patient is stable at time of discharge.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Patient's medication changes are as stated
above.

FOLLOW-UP:  Patient will have follow-up with Dr. [**First Name (STitle) 18732**] in one
week.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  Congestive heart failure/pneumonia.





                               DR.[**Last Name (STitle) 7726**],[**First Name3 (LF) 177**] A. 11-447


Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 2402**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2119-9-4**]  15:21
T:  [**2119-9-4**]  15:21
JOB#:  [**Job Number 93955**]
