Admission Date:  [**2157-12-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2157-12-12**]


Service:  CARD ICU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:   The patient is a [**Age over 90 **] year old
female with a past medical history significant for coronary
artery disease status post myocardial infarction in [**2140**],
hypercholesterolemia, and hypertension, who presents with a
history of acute onset chest pain while at rest.  The patient
was reportedly in her usual state of health when she noted
acute onset of substernal chest pain with radiation to the
back and left arm.  The chest pain progressively worsened
despite sublingual Nitroglycerin at home and was associated
with nausea, dyspnea and diaphoresis.  The patient denied
palpitations, shortness of breath, pleuritic pain, as well as
positional worsening.

The patient called the Emergency Medical Service and was
brought to the Emergency Department.  En route, the patient
received aspirin and Nitroglycerin spray without relief of
chest pain.

Upon arrival to the Emergency Department, the patient was
found afebrile with blood pressure 127/53, heart rate 51 and
oxygen saturation 100% on 100% non-rebreather.  The patient
was started on a Nitroglycerin drip with persistent chest
pain.  A chest and abdomen CT angiogram was performed and
unremarkable for aortic dissection.  The patient had serial
electrocardiograms which were consistent with evolving
inferior-posterior infarction with ST elevations in the
inferior leads and the patient was sent for emergent cardiac
catheterization.

At catheterization, the patient was found to have three
vessel disease with 30% stenosis of the left main artery, 50
to 60% of stenosis of the left anterior descending artery
(diffusely diseased), total occlusion of the right coronary
artery with collaterals, and total occlusion of the obtuse
marginal 1 branch of the left circumflex with evidence of
acute thrombus.  The patient underwent obtuse marginal 1
balloon dilatation with stenting.  Zero residual was seen
following dilatation and stenting, however, there was a
period of transient absence of re-flow.  The patient was
treated with intra-coronary Nitroglycerin, Adenosine and
Cardizem with subsequent TIMI-3 flow.

A right heart catheterization was performed which
demonstrated elevated filling pressures with a pulmonary
capillary wedge pressure of 30 millimeters of Mercury.

The patient was started on Plavix and Integrilin and
transferred to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit for
management.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1.  Hypertension.
2.  Hypercholesterolemia.
3.  Hypothyroidism.
4.  Coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction
([**2140**]).
5.  Degenerative joint disease.

ALLERGIES:   Question of penicillin allergy (source
unreliable).

MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q. day.
2.  Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day.
3.  Synthroid 125 micrograms p.o. q. day.
4.  Lopressor 25 mg p.o. twice a day.
5.  Nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n.

SOCIAL HISTORY:   The patient is a widow and lives alone.
The patient reports a remote tobacco history and occasional
wine use.

FAMILY HISTORY:   Noncontributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:   On admission, temperature 94.2 F.;
blood pressure 133/83; pulse 88; respiratory rate 18; oxygen
saturation 94% on four liters nasal cannula; pulmonary artery
pressures 33/19.  In general, the patient is a well
developed, well nourished elderly female lying flat in no
acute distress.  HEENT examination:  Normocephalic,
atraumatic, anicteric sclerae.  Extraocular movements intact
bilaterally.  Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light
and accommodation.  Dry mucous membranes; clear oropharynx.
Neck is supple with no jugular venous distention appreciated.
Cardiovascular examination:  Regular rate and rhythm with no
murmurs, rubs or gallops appreciated.  Pulmonary:  Clear to
auscultation anteriorly with no wheezes, rales or rhonchi.
Abdominal examination is soft, nontender, nondistended, with
normoactive bowel sounds.  No masses appreciated.
Extremities with no cyanosis, clubbing or edema, two plus
dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses bilaterally.
Right groin with arterial and venous catheter sheaths in
place.  No hematoma evident.  Neurological examination is
awake, alert and oriented times three.  Cranial nerves II
through XII intact; nonfocal.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:  The patient denies recent history of
dyspnea on exertion, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea,
claudication, bright red blood per rectum as well as melena.

LABORATORY AND STUDIES:  On admission, CBC with a white blood
cell count of 7.9, hematocrit 38.6, platelets 289.  Chem-7
with a sodium of 142, potassium of 4.2, chloride 106,
bicarbonate 25, BUN 23, creatinine 0.9 and glucose of 186.
Coags with a PT of 12.0, INR 1.0 and PTT of 22.0.

ALT 32, AST 29, alkaline phosphatase 73, total bilirubin 0.4,
amylase 115 with a lipase of 40.  Free calcium 1.19.  Initial
CK 156, CK MB 4, troponin I of less than 0.3.

Chest x-ray on admission without evidence of edema,
infiltrate or effusion.

CT angiogram of the abdomen, pelvis, and chest, with evidence
of a large hiatal hernia associated with gastric volvulus; 2)
left basilar atelectasis and 3) no evidence of aortic
dissection with extensive atheromatous plaque and aortic
calcification.

Initial EKG on admission demonstrating sinus bradycardia at
52 with T wave inversions in the inferior leads (old), and
left ventricular hypertrophy.

A follow-up EKG approximately one hour later demonstrated
normal sinus rhythm, with intraventricular conduction delay,
1 to [**Street Address(2) 2915**] elevations in leads II, III, and AVF
with pseudo-normalization of the T waves, and reciprocal ST
depressions in leads V1 through V2.

HOSPITAL COURSE:   In the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit, the
patient's hemodynamics were monitored with a Swan-Ganz
catheter.  The patient was diuresed adequately with 40 mg of
intravenous lasix and maintained a pulmonary artery diastolic
pressure in the range of 9 to 10.  The patient ruled in for
an ST elevation myocardial infarction with a peak CK of 1,945
and peak CK MB of 217.  No arrhythmic activity was seen on
Telemetry throughout.  A subsequently transthoracic
echocardiogram demonstrated moderate decrease in left
ventricular systolic function with a ejection fraction of 30
to 40%, and severe hypokinesis of the inferior-posterior
wall, as well as moderate hypokalemia of the lateral left
ventricular wall.  The echocardiogram also demonstrated a
component of diastolic dysfunction and mild symmetric left
ventricular hypertrophy.

A lipid panel on the patient's current regimen of Lipitor 10
mg p.o. q. day, included a total cholesterol of 145, LDL of
72 and high density lipoprotein of 54.  The patient was
started on an ACE inhibitor for afterload reduction which was
well tolerated.  The patient was continued on a beta blocker,
increased from her prior outpatient dose for blood pressure
and rate control.

On hospital day number three, the patient developed an acute
change in mental status (agitation, delirium) with non-focal
neurologic examination.  The patient became acutely agitated,
tachycardic and hypertensive, requiring additional doses of
intravenous Lopressor for rate and blood pressure control.
The patient had no recurrent episodes of chest pain,
shortness of breath, nausea or vomiting, or palpitations.
The patient also received Haldol on an as-needed basis for
worsening agitation with modest improvement.

A Psychiatric consultation was obtained, and the patient was
placed on 1:1 sitter for anxiety/agitation.  The work-up
included a urinalysis which was strongly suggestive of a
urinary tract infection and the patient was started on
Levofloxacin with dramatic improved mental status wtihin 24
hours.

A TSH, B12, and folate level were also obtained which were
within normal limits.  The patient's mental status changes
were presumably secondary to urosepsis and the patient
continues to remain awake, alert and oriented and appropriate
at the time of dictation.

At the time of transfer from the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit
to the Medicine Floor, the patient began to complain of left
foot pain.  The patient had no evidence of edema w