Admission Date:  [**2177-11-27**]       Discharge Date:  [**2177-12-20**]

Date of Birth:   [**2105-11-7**]       Sex:  M

Service:  CARTHOR SG

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  This 72-year-old man with no
past significant medical history but an extensive tobacco
history presented to an outside hospital with ten over ten
chest pain satting poorly in pulmonary edema.  He was started
on IV nitroglycerin, IV Integrilin and IV heparin.  He ruled
in for a myocardial infarction.  This was also complicated by
bleeding from his heparin and Integrilin which were
discontinued.  He received three units of packed red blood
cells.

He was taken to catheterization at the outside hospital which
showed a 90% proximal right coronary artery, severe aortic
stenosis with a valve area of 0.5 cm sq. and a peak gradient
of 80 mg. He was extubated on the 8th prior to admission at
the outside hospital after diuresis.  In total, he had some
hemoptysis and he was transferred to [**Hospital1 190**].

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Includes his extensive tobacco
history.  He currently smoked two to four packs per day.  He
had no regular doctor's visits and he does state that he had
a prior history of a heart murmur.

MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER:  Aspirin, Lopressor, levofloxacin,
Protonix and a nitroglycerin drip.

ALLERGIES:  No known allergies.

He was seen by Dr. [**First Name4 (NamePattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) 7625**] of Cardiothoracic Surgery
service.  He did rule in for myocardial infarction with
elevated troponins and CPKs.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:  None.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  He was in sinus rhythm in the 70's
with a blood pressure of 112/42, PA pressures of 50/24.  No
jugular venous distention.  He had no teeth, had upper and
lower dentures.  Heart was regular rate and rhythm with a
systolic murmur that was harsh.  Lungs were clear
bilaterally.  His abdominal examination was benign.  He had
2+ bilateral carotid radial and femoral pulses with no DP and
PT palpable pulses but positive by Doppler.

PREOPERATIVE LABORATORIES:  White count of 6.9, hematocrit of
32.8, platelet count 125,000.  INR 1.9, PTT 29.  Sodium 151,
potassium 3.1, chloride 109, CO2 31, BUN 43, creatinine 1.2
and blood sugar 155.

ECHOCARDIOGRAM:  Showed concentric left ventricular
hypertrophy and trileaflet aortic valve with 1-2+ mitral
regurgitation, 1+ tricuspid regurgitation although there was
no mention of his aortic stenosis at that point.

Diuresis helped his pulmonary edema.  He also did not have
any history of transient ischemic attacks.  His hematocrit
was stabilized after his gastrointestinal bleed at the
outside hospital.  He continued aggressive diuresis.  He was
seen by Cardiology to help wean his nitroglycerin and to get
him started on a beta blocker by Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **] of Cardiology.



DICTATOR STATES, "PLEASE CANCEL THIS DISCHARGE SUMMARY, THERE
IS ONE IN THE CHART, THANK YOU."  QA/md


                            [**Doctor Last Name 412**] [**Last Name (Prefixes) 413**], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 414**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 76**]
MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2178-1-29**]  14:17
T:  [**2178-1-29**]  14:39
JOB#:  [**Job Number 45886**]
