Admission Date:  [**2155-3-5**]       Discharge Date:  [**2155-3-11**]


Service:  CCU

CHIEF COMPLAINT:  Substernal chest pain.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 78-year-old
female with a history of tobacco use, one pack per day times
60 years, and hypothyroidism.  The patient awoke on the
morning of admission with severe substernal chest pain,
shortness of breath, and diaphoresis.  The patient stated
that she had never experienced these symptoms before.

She went to the Emergency Department at [**Hospital 16843**] Hospital
where she was found to have electrocardiogram abnormalities
with ST segment elevation in V1-V5 and Q-wave in V1 and V2.
Compared to her prior electrocardiogram, these changes were
new.

In the Emergency Department, the patient was given Aspirin,
started on a Nitroglycerin drip, and was administered
Lovenox.  TB3A inhibitor and thrombolytics were held due to
concern for possible left-sided facial droop.  The patient
did have a head CT which was negative for bleed at the
outside hospital.  The patient was transferred to [**Hospital6 1760**] for further management.

The patient was taken directly for cardiac catheterization.
Coronary angiography of her right dominant system revealed
three-vessel disease.  The LMCA was free of flow-limiting
lesions.  The left anterior descending was totally occluded
proximally.  The left circumflex had a proximal 70% stenosis
and mild luminal irregularities throughout.  The dominant
right coronary artery had mild luminal irregularities
throughout with a 50-60% stenosis in its mid segment.  The
occluded proximal left anterior descending was successfully
treated by AngioJet and stenting using two overlapping stents
extending from the proximal to mid left anterior descending.
Final angiography revealed no residual stenosis within the
stents.  There was no angiographic evidence of dissection in
FAST TIMI-2 flow.  There was a severe, diffuse disease in the
distal left anterior descending which was left untreated.

During the procedure, the patient was given Dopamine and
Neo-Synephrine, and an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  Hypothyroidism.  Left hip fracture.
Right humerus fracture sustained approximately two weeks ago.

ALLERGIES:  NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.

MEDICATIONS:  Oxycodone p.r.n., Levothyroxine, Aspirin.

SOCIAL HISTORY:  The patient smokes one pack per day times 60
years.  She denied use of alcohol and drugs.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  General:  The patient was an elderly
female lying in bed in no apparent distress.  Vital signs:
Temperature 96.4??????, pulse 118, blood pressure 133/81,
respirations 16, oxygen saturation 95% on nonrebreather.
HEENT:  Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Pupils equal, round and
reactive to light.  Slight left eye droop.  Moist mucous
membranes.  Oropharynx clear.  Neck:  Supple.  Difficult to
assess jugular venous distention.  Heart:  Regular, rate and
rhythm.  Heart sounds muffled by intra-aortic balloon pump.
Lungs:  Clear to auscultation anteriorly.  Abdomen:  Soft,
nontender, nondistended.  Positive bowel sounds.
Extremities:  No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.  Left femoral
groin line present.  Right arm immobilized in sling.
Neurological:  The patient was alert and oriented times
three.  There was a left eye droop.  Exam otherwise nonfocal.

LABORATORY DATA:  White count 9.1, hematocrit 31.8, platelet
count 320; initial CK 66, MB 3; chemistry showed a BUN and
creatinine of 11 and 1.

Electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm, 80 beats per minute,
normal intervals, slight left axis deviation, ST segment
elevation in V2-V5, ST segment depression in II, III and AVF.

Head CT at the outside hospital was negative for bleed.

IMPRESSION:  This was a 78-year-old female with history of
tobacco use and hypothyroidism who was found to have acute
anterior wall myocardial infarction status post
catheterization with stents to left anterior descending.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was admitted to the CCU for
further management.

1.  Cardiology/ischemia:  The patient was administered
Plavix, beta-blocker, Aspirin, statin, and an ACE inhibitor
was introduced as her blood pressure tolerated.  As noted
above, cardiac catheterization disclosed three-vessel
coronary artery disease.  There was also severe systolic and
diastolic ventricular dysfunction.

Her acute anterior myocardial infarction was managed by acute
PTCA.  She underwent successful AngioJet and stenting of the
occluded proximal left anterior descending, as well as
successful placement of an intra-aortic balloon pump.

Due to the finding of three-vessel disease, CT Surgery was
consulted.  The patient will be seen by CT Surgery on [**4-2**], 2:30, [**Hospital Unit Name 4081**].  At that point, Dr.
[**Last Name (STitle) 70**] will determine when the patient should go to OR.
Coumadin and Plavix should be discontinued one week prior to
surgery.

Lipid panel:  Was obtained during the hospitalization.  The
patient's LDL was mildly elevated at 107.  She will continue
on Pravastatin 20 mg p.o. q.d.

Pump:  As noted above, the patient was initially on
Neo-Synephrine and Dopamine, as well as intra-aortic balloon
pump when she came out of the catheterization lab.  These
pressors were eventually weaned off, and the intra-aortic
balloon pump was also discontinued.

The patient underwent echocardiogram on [**2155-3-7**].  The
results of the echocardiogram disclosed a left atrium normal
in size.  There was moderate regional left ventricular
systolic dysfunction with severe hypokinesis of the distal
half of the anterior septum, apex and distal anterior wall,
right ventricular chamber size and free wall motion are
normal, no aortic regurgitation seen.  The mitral valve
leaflets were mildly thickened.  There was mild 1+ mitral
regurgitation.  There was mild pulmonary artery systolic
hypertension.  There was trivial physiologic pericardial
effusion.

Anticoagulation:  The patient was started on Coumadin.  The
patient was maintained on Heparin during her hospital stay.
She was started on Coumadin on [**2155-3-10**], due to
echocardiogram findings of severe hypokinesis of the anterior
wall.  The patient's goal INR is 1.8-2.5.

Rhythm:  The patient remained in normal sinus rhythm during
her hospital stay.  She was monitored closely on telemetry.

2.  Hematologic:  The patient was noted to be anemic on
admission with a hematocrit of 31.8.  She was given 2 U
packed red blood cells on [**3-6**].  Iron studies, B12 and
folate were within normal limits; however ferratin was on the
low end of normal at 26.  Due to concern for iron deficiency,
the patient should undergo colonoscopy as an outpatient.

3.  Musculoskeletal:  The patient noted that she had a
humerus fracture two weeks prior to her presentation.
Shoulder film at [**Hospital6 256**]
disclosed a fracture involving the surgical neck and greater
tubercle of the humerus.  There was mild impaction and
anterior displacement of the distal fragment.

The patient was seen by the Orthopedic Service who
recommended that the patient be maintained in a sling.  She
may do passive range of motion and assisted active range of
motion exercises.  They recommended pain control as needed
and that she should follow-up with Orthopedics in [**12-12**] weeks.

4.  Psychiatry:  The patient has a significant smoking
history.  The patient underwent counseling for smoking
cessation and was maintained on a Nicotine patch during her
hospital stay.

5.  Endocrine:  The patient has a history of hypothyroidism.
The patient was maintained on Levothyroxine during her
hospital stay.

6.  Infectious disease:  On [**3-8**], the patient spiked a
temperature and was noted to have an area of
cellulitis/phlebitis on her left upper extremity.  Blood
cultures were drawn, and 1 out of 2 bottles initially grew
MRSA.  The patient is to be treated with Vancomycin for a
14-day course via PICC line.  The patient did have additional
sets of blood cultures drawn.  These should be followed for
organisms.  Echocardiogram should be considered.  Since the
patient looks clinically well, it is likely that this initial
organism was a contaminant.  The patient has remained
afebrile since [**3-8**].
