Admission Date:  [**2183-10-28**]     Discharge Date:  [**2183-11-5**]

Date of Birth:   [**2114-9-5**]     Sex:  F

Service:  CCU

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 69 year old
female with a history of CHF and peripheral vascular disease
with cardiac risk factors significant for elevated
cholesterol, hypertension, 70 pack year history of tobacco
and increased age, who presented with a two week history of
progressive shortness of breath with acute exacerbation in
the 24 hours prior to admission.  The patient was in her
usual state of health until two weeks prior to admission when
she developed slowly progressive shortness of breath.  There
were no associated fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, cough,
chest pain or lightheadedness.  The patient reported to have
gone to the bathroom and shortly after returning to bed
developed acute onset exacerbation of shortness of breath
approximately 24 hours before admission.  She was brought to
the emergency department in respiratory distress and was
noted to be in a-fib with a rate of 120.  Systolic blood
pressure was in the 90s, diastolic in the 40s.  In the E.D.
she was rate controlled with IV Lopressor, but continued to
remain short of breath.  Chest x-ray demonstrated florid
pulmonary edema.  The patient was started on Lasix 20 mg IV
times two and was also started on BiPAP for respiratory
distress.  The patient was evaluated in the emergency
department by the CCU team and noted to have both hemodynamic
instability as well as respiratory distress.  She was
intubated in the E.D. and transferred to the CCU for further
monitoring.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:  On admission to the CCU the patient's
temperature was 95.2, rate 100, blood pressure 95/42, sating
100% on FiO2 60% on SIMV ventilation.  Physical exam was
notable for decreased heart sounds with normal S1, S2.  Lungs
were clear to auscultation in the upper half with bilateral
crackles half way down the lower lung fields posterior
greater than anterior.  Abdominal exam was benign.
Extremities were cold times four.  She had nonpalpable
bilateral lower extremity pulses, however, both were
dopplerable.  Right radial pulse was 1+, left radial pulse
not palpable, but dopplerable.  She had 1+ femoral pulses
bilaterally and demonstrated no clubbing, cyanosis or edema
in four extremities.

LABORATORY DATA:  On admission cardiac enzymes were within
normal limits.  Chem-7 was significant only for creatinine of
1.6.  The rest of her admitting labs were within her normal
range.  Admitting EKG was significant for a-fib which was
taken down in the E.D. with a rate of 120.  She demonstrated
left bundle pattern with ST depressions in V5 and V6.  EKG
was consistent with LVH with strain and possible dig effect
as the patient takes dig at home.  A few hours after
admission EKG converted to normal sinus rhythm which
continued to demonstrate LVH with ST depressions in V5 and V6
that were also consistent with dig effect.  Chest x-ray on
admission demonstrated bilateral vascular markings that went
out to the periphery, curly B lines, questionable right
middle lobe infiltrate as well as diffuse opacification of
her lung fields consistent with florid pulmonary edema.

IMPRESSION:  At that point the patient was assessed to be a
69 year old female with a history of CHF, peripheral vascular
disease with flash pulmonary edema probably secondary to
fluid overload as well as new onset a-fib who was
experiencing acute renal insufficiency as well as currently
in respiratory distress.

HOSPITAL COURSE:  The patient was brought to the CCU and was
rate controlled with Lopressor p.r.n. doses of 5 mg IV as her
rate remained in the low 100s.  Her blood pressure had
stabilized.  The patient was started on IV Lasix 40 mg p.r.n.
with a goal diuresis per day of approximately 1 liter.  On
admission the patient's ABG was noted to be 7.32, CO2 38, PO2
60.  After being putting on the vent and brought to the CCU,
the patient's ABG was noted to be 7.43, CO2 30, PO2 147 which
was taken on 60% FiO2.  The patient was diuresed over the
course of the next two days.  On [**10-30**] the patient's cardiac
enzymes continued to increase from admission CK of 75 to CK
of 384 on the 25th.  However, troponin I values, which peaked
on the 24th at 12.5, had been trending down over the course
of the next 24 hours.

The decision was made for the patient to undergo diagnostic
catheterization to evaluate for possible cause of rising
cardiac enzymes.  Cath demonstrated main coronary artery
stenosis of 20%, left anterior descending demonstrating
moderate diffuse disease with serial 50% stenoses before and
after D2 and D1 of 50%.  Left circ was noted to be totally
occluded at the ostium with left to right collaterals.  RCA
was noted to be totally occluded with left to right
collaterals as well.  The patient tolerated the procedure
well and remained hemodynamically stable and was intubated
throughout the procedure.

On [**10-31**], one day after catheterization, the patient remained
hemodynamically stable and was extubated after being weaned
off the vent.  The patient tolerated extubation well and
remained extubated for the rest of her hospital course.  The
patient was diuresed throughout her hospital course and
tolerated that well with blood pressure ranging from 90s to
low 100s over 50s to 60s.  The patient experienced loss of
both potassium and magnesium secondary to diuresis and was
repleted as needed.

On the night of admission the patient was noted to have a
fever spike to 103.8 and was started on Levaquin and Flagyl
for possible aspiration pneumonia.  She remained afebrile
through the course of her hospital stay and was receiving a
10 day course of Flagyl and Levaquin for treatment of
possible aspiration pneumonia.

The patient continued to improve and received both P.T. and
O.T. while hospitalized and was deemed appropriate to return
to her home setting where she had assistance from her
roommate.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1.  Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.day.
2.  Spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.day.
3.  Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.day.
4.  Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.day.
5.  Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day.
6.  Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.day.
7.  Levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.day for two more days as she
received an eight day course while in the hospital.
8.  Flagyl 500 mg p.o. q.eight hours for two more days as she
had already received eight days of Flagyl in the hospital.
9.  K-Dur 20 mEq p.o. q.day.
10. Magnesium oxide 800 mg p.o. q.day.

DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:  The patient is to be discharged home
with followup P.T. safety evaluation and VNA followup visit
to evaluate patient's aspiration precautions.  The patient
was scheduled to have a followup appointment with her primary
care physician, [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **]. [**Last Name (STitle) 36361**], on Friday, [**11-7**], at 10:45
when she should have her electrolytes checked, especially
potassium and magnesium which had been running low, as well
as INR as the patient had been receiving heparin and Coumadin
while hospitalized.  Coumadin was not continued at the time
of discharge secondary to INR being 4.8.  Coumadin has since
been held and should be restarted as an outpatient as
Dr.[**Last Name (STitle) 36361**] will continue to monitor.

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:  CHF with flash pulmonary edema
secondary to a-fib and volume overload.






                          [**First Name8 (NamePattern2) 870**] [**Last Name (NamePattern1) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 5219**]

Dictated By:[**Last Name (NamePattern1) 36362**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2183-11-5**]  14:12
T:  [**2183-11-7**]  07:46
JOB#:  [**Job Number 36363**]
