Admission Date:  [**2186-1-13**]     Discharge Date:  [**2186-1-25**]

Date of Birth:   [**2112-8-12**]     Sex:  M

Service:  TRAUMA

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  The patient is a 73-year-old
patient who presented to the [**Hospital6 2018**] Emergency Room via trauma alert after he was hit by a
car while riding a bicycle.  Patient was intubated at the
scene and was found unresponsive.  Patient presented to the
Trauma Bay with a GCS of 3 and intubated.  On exam,
hemodynamically he was stable, however, on physical exam, the
patient was completely unresponsive.  His pupils were
approximately 4-5 mm and reactive bilaterally with positive
corneal reflex.  Patient was noted to have a large scalp
laceration on the right side of his head.  His lungs were
noted to be decreased with lung sounds in the right.  His
pelvis was stable.  Rectal exam was heme negative and
extremities exam was unremarkable.

Patient underwent trauma series which includes a lateral C
spine, chest x-ray and pelvis x-rays.  Chest x-ray was
significant for multiple rib fractures on the right.  His C
spine x-ray was unremarkable as well as his pelvic x-ray.
Patient also underwent CAT scan of his head and abdomen which
are significant for a subarachnoid hemorrhage and a right
temporal intraparenchymal hemorrhage with significant amount
of edema in his head.  Patient also underwent CAT scan of his
chest which was remarkable for multiple rib fractures on the
right as well as a pneumothorax on the right.  His abdominal
CAT scan was unremarkable.  Moreover, his laboratory values
were unremarkable.

Patient was subsequently admitted to the Surgical Intensive
Care Unit where a chest tube was placed on the right.
Central lines were also placed.  His hospital course was
complicated by nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with a
tremendous amount of urine output requiring a large boluses
up to 12 liters of free water and D5W to maintain normal
serum sodium.  The serum sodium went up as high as in the
170s, however, with aggressive fluid replacement, we were
able to bring his sodium down to the 140s.  His Surgical
Intensive Care Unit course was also complicated by a growth
of Serratia and E. Coli in his sputum for which he was
treated.  He also had a ventricular drain placed by
Neurosurgery which persistently showed that he had increased
intracranial pressure anywhere up 14 up to as high as 30s
requiring intermittent boluses of mannitol.

Throughout his entire stay in the Surgical Intensive Care
Unit, the patient remained completely unresponsive to any
type of stimuli including pain.  The only neurological
function he had was corneal reflex or reactive pupils.
Patient had no gag reflex or any other basic neurological
functions.  Family meeting was held early on during his
hospital course.  The family was adamant about doing every
thing for the patient, however, the family did agree to make
the patient "Do Not Resuscitate."  It wasn't until [**1-25**], the family finally decided to withdrawal care.  On the
19th subsequently, the patient was extubated and shortly
thereafter he expired.

DISCHARGE STATUS:  Patient expired on [**2186-1-25**].

DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1.  Severe intracranial hemorrhage secondary to a car versus
bicycle accident.
2.  Multiple rib fractures on the right ribs #[**6-16**]
complicated by a pneumothorax on the right.
3.  Large scalp laceration which was repaired.









                          [**First Name11 (Name Pattern1) **] [**Last Name (NamePattern4) **], M.D.  [**MD Number(1) 6066**]

Dictated By:[**Name8 (MD) 20292**]

MEDQUIST36

D:  [**2186-1-29**]  21:53
T:  [**2186-1-29**]  21:53
JOB#:  [**Job Number 36321**]
